Yeah, good stuff. And, you know, it only cost you about, so it's only costing me about $3 to get 30 copies of, I would say, six 10-page fans and, you know, Anne Zappa. Now, you know, I can afford $3, but I can't afford, I
can't afford what Bruce is spending on this and Bruce is unemployed at the moment. And he's supposed to be going overseas and he's also furnishing a new house. Now, I'm not that dedicated.
So, The panel obviously doesn't think, then, that the possibility of video cassette bandzines is on. Oh, I think it's quite likely, man. It's on. It's on. It's on. It's on. It's on. It's on. It's on. It's on. It's on.
It's on. It's on. It's on. It's on. It's on. It's on. It's on. It's on. It's on. It's on. It's on. It's on. It's on. It's on. It's on. It's on. It's on. It's on. It's on. It's on. It's on. It's on. It's on. It's on. It's on. It's
on. It's on. It's on. It's on. It's on. It's on. It's on. It's on. It's on. It's on. It's on. It's on. It's on. It's on. I think it's viable. At the World Convention last year there was a section on the techniques, a whole
session in the convention, very very popular on the techniques of animation. This was a terrific crowd getter. The videotape at the moment is unreal to fandom. I'm lucky because I'm studying video tape and things
like that, and I have access to machines and tape. It doesn't cost much. But yeah, that's what it is. Sir, are we talking about communications or communication technology? We're talking about communication amongst
bands. That's right. Practicalities of communication? As a matter of fact, the best method of communication amongst fans isn't fan scenes at all. It's only one side, but the other one is conventions. For those
people who would like to have a bird's-eye view of the Australian conventions, I've got the Australian Convention Handbooks here, as from the National Convention Number 3. And if anybody would like to have a look at
these after the panel, I've got only 2.2. It's an ad for 19 Somerset Place Melbourne, you may remember. This is Eastercon 72, the 10th Australian Science Fiction Convention at Melbourne University, cheaply
memorable for the complete absence of laboratories.
Eastercon 73, Mini Melcon 71, Etherline 2, Journal of the Modern Science Fiction. Eastercon 1968, 7th Australian Science Fiction Convention 1966, which started off the modern Renaissance. Bow everybody, bow
your heads in reverence. The World Convention Program book for last year. Containing
Harlan Ellison's signature. It's
a small signature too.
Put his hand prints in there. Art Plate from the 9th Australian Science Fiction Convention Handbook.
Do How many panels have they considered? writing outside a ban. Now, this thing called communication, is it more important to them to communicate and give feedback or have they considered writing in other bills or
what their attitude would be to writing in these other bills? Would they decline to write, say, a column in a newspaper or some other magazine? Right away about the lack of sleep. Yeah, well, I for one thought of the idea
of writing professionally. Hasn't everybody. Also, it's one stage I applied for a cadet journalist, but decided against it because of the rat race, as it really is. Writing-wise, not much otherwise. I wouldn't mind
films and photography and stuff like that. Some of those things, I don't do it for communication, that's done for my satisfaction, whereas fencing is done for feedback. It's very strange.
Well, to answer Lee's question for myself, as Lee knows, Lee and I are doing some work at the moment, outside fencing is complete. I've
been
writing some short stories which are pretty terrible at the moment. Yeah, I think that there's probably actually more satisfaction in doing something which I know could appeal to a larger audience than in doing a
fanzine. Fanzines are easy. Fanzines are very easy to write.
But to write anything outside that field is hard. I personally don't. I think that I spend much time on the fans and I don't want to try and get a perfect looking thing. Sometimes I do a second draft and other times I just
wake it up straight there. I've got my little bottle of Corfu, I like sniffing it as Michael Cooney would say. And that's all there is to it. I can whack out a stencil in about 12 minutes or something. Do you think you would
get that kind of satisfaction that you get out of fanzines if you do something else? I don't know. If I get satisfaction out of fanzines now, you're upsetting me. What are you doing? Well, look, we're going to have to
wind this panel up. So I think we'll just finish with Bruce Gillespie. You're all right. Just making one point about this business of challenge in fanzines. People contribute to fanzines on several levels, one of
which it's just a fun thing and they do something without being terribly self-critical about what they do. Other people use fanzines to cut their literary teeth to find out the limits of what they can and can't do to
improve their writing and so forth. As a matter of fact, some of the most popular science fiction authors, some of our best authors, Ted White, Harlan Ellison, are fans and cut their literary
teeth. Some of these people that earn their living by writing, which is the only real test, are fans and learn to write within fanzines. I think the term is worth fanzines, surely? No, ah. This is still a fan. He wouldn't
go to conventions. Are we hiding? You still a fan? No, I'm not a fan. What are you? He's probably come here for his morning, you know. Just because you've taken conventions, I mean, I don't like fancy articles. I... Bro,
can I? There are a lot of things that fans didn't know. I don't consider myself a fan, I'm probably a latched fan. You know, I'm a latched Catholic. It still hangs on to you. They leave charisma there. What turns you on as
meeting the people? No, is it the people? No, it's a... I think what you've read in Science Fiction has been part of fairing them, if you've done it at all seriously, it never fully lets you down. Some are withdrawals.
They're from Science Fiction. I've come to all of this because I've cut the literary paper, the letter con of the magazine. Lots of fans cut their teeth to do that. They're called to make a dent before they were done
fanzines. That's true. In every old amazing there was a little bit of fanzine. Well look, if David Greger or Ken Ford won anything else to say, just before we round like this. I'm struck dumb about it. I would say that I
don't think fandom is a wild light. I don't think fandom is a goddamn hobby. I think that you agree with Bill Wright that Phantom is a process that we all go through. Some of us don't go through it though. But I also like to
add my little personal little one. Phantom's a bloody nuisance. Well done, I think that's a good concluding note. Turn
these off, we'll end this. We'll switch from three rounds and cheers. It's good fun. It's good fun. I'm a bit of a masochist. Make the ball clap, Mr. Chairman. Don't give us a clap. Yeah, come
on, come on. On science fiction writers. If every one's agreeable to that. In about ten minutes time. I've been asked to moderate this thrilling panel. the subject of which I've forgotten, I think it's something to do
with ethnic Aussie SF, or words to that nature. The gentleman on my right is Mr Eric Harris Harris, a resident of South Australia, and an author of some note, if you know your vision of tomorrows, Eric had several
stories in the early issues, You've also published a book on astronomy, haven't you? That's right. I have a faintest idea what his occupation is, but that doesn't really matter. This gentleman here, you know, is
Wynne Whiteford and the Holiesteam John Foester, earliest John Ozziean. Right. Now, as regards ethnic Australian SF, I will now pass you over firstly to John Foester to hear his comments on the subject. I think it
must have been a conventional long time ago. Well, perhaps it was even before we had conventions again that this subject arose, certainly not the first time, but I think the first time, if I can recall, and there was a
little bit of chat to and fro, probably involving Lee Harding, and I think also involving John Baxter. about the problem of writing uniquely Australian science fiction. And Mervyn Barrett, who of course is always
sensible about these things, wrote briefly suggesting that we shouldn't be concentrating on Australia, uniquely Australian science fiction. Mervyn always likes to think cosmically. And so in this particular
case he said, gentlemen, let us think globally. Let us try to write uniquely terren science fiction. Now, I think that what Mervin said is actually quite relevant to what's going on here today.
There are lots and lots of ethnic science fiction types around. There's American science fiction, there's British science fiction, there's German science fiction, there's certainly Polish and Eastern European
science fiction. And all of these are very, very distinguishable. perhaps with a few very notable exceptions. And to add one other uniquely nationalistic kind of science fiction doesn't seem to me to add very much to
the pool and that what we do need to do perhaps is to write a science fiction which is suitable for everyone, not just for one country. Over and out. Right. Well, I think we should consider the two types, or the two
distinct types of writing Australian
SF if it comes to that. There is the form which utilises local background color. This is the simplest form and this applies really only if you're writing for local markets because you haven't got much chance of selling
a science fiction novel on the international market that is say based in Australia. Although Cordway and Smith did it rather successfully. I'm going to ask Derek now who has written science fiction for the local
market and if he could tell me if he's found it effective or not. Well quite frankly I have not found it effective. The general tendency seems to be amongst publishers anyway that we're not going to take a chance on the
local boys. The reason for this is pretty well understood by everyone is attempted to write science fiction for a local market or for that matter any form of writing for the local market that you have the problem of
distribution you have the problem of working in your own genre, so to speak, and the problem of distribution more or less rules out any hope of either launching a magazine, contributing to a magazine specifically for
Australian conditions, or for that matter of writing for Australian conditions for an overseas market, except in a very limited sphere, which we attempted to do in the late lamented vision. I think there are a very
large number of people throughout the world that are interested in the exotic and the exotics anywhere where you're not. And that of course includes Australia and there's no doubt about it. There isn't an abysmal
ignorance of Australia and particularly the urban Australia scene. It'll only be the generally understood comic science fiction side, if you like, of the magma camels and the didgeridoo's and such like. But on the
whole, no, I don't think that we do have any satisfactory outlet for local Australian talent.
I suppose that, as I said before, that the exotic's always where you're not, and therefore there will be a limited amount, but as John pointed out, a full novel length novel length science fiction, the general idea is
to write it in the neighbourhood of the novella and this of course limits you to a certain extent to develop a theme fully to understand the Australian background is very unlikely to be done in anything under 8,000
words and once you do that I'm afraid you'll have to rely upon an international market and not a local market. I know I've tried very hard particularly in the sphere of children's science fiction And in this alone,
you've got to be extremely careful anyway, and the background here is far too localised. Our children are urban, they are in fact world urbanites already, and fast losing whatever Australian characteristics that
they would be able to recognise in a children's novel. I'm speaking now and writing for children, but the same thing also applies to adult science fiction. No, quite frankly, I don't see that the local market is going
to be much of an outlet for budding science fiction writers of any style, either the avant-garde or the old stuff. Well, considering the second aspect, I know one writer, a very prominent science fiction writer in
this country, who to me, constantly infuses Australian characteristics into his stories, this of course is Bert Chandler. And he operates in the tried and proven way of supposedly writing about the far future. and
at the same time writing about the here and now. His Rimworld stories, as most of you know, are really very fanciful variations on his own experience on the coastal run around Australia, Tasmania and New Zealand. His
characters, many of them are just about Australian as you can get, But because these stories are not localised and recognisably Australian, because they are set in the far, far future, Bert is obviously finding a way
of writing a form of Australian science fiction. He has a novel coming from Wren Publishers in Melbourne, a new firm, a paperback publisher, which is an expansion of his story, The Bitter Pill, which is in vision. And
it is a novel about a futuristic Australia. which was not accepted by any publisher overseas, which I think seems to indicate the point that you must write globally for science fiction. Now when you've been writing
stuff many, many years ago when you're overseas in America and in England, did you consciously at any time when you were working for those markets try to inject Australian elements into your writing? Well, no,
frankly, no. I think, economically, you have only one major market, that is America, for the simple reason that you've got a population of a couple of hundred millions. And this is about the only one where you can get a
magazine with circulation approaching a couple of hundred thousand. Now, this applied, I think, in not only science fiction, but other. parts of magazines that I have contributed to. I think that what it is possible
to do is what Frank Reining did in One Story that comes very much to mind, the place of the throwing stick. I don't know if you remember that, I think it appeared in Was It Galaxy? Fantastic universe and then a new world in
England. That's right, certainly one of the American ones first. Well, now that, this, some of you may remember, I dealt with the warmer rocket range, extrapolated a little bit into the future, where a large rocket
was going up and an aboriginal managed to get down near the launching pad and throw a boom ring into the vines that controlled the direction of the rocket so that you had a the most primitive type of weapon destroying or
wrecking the probably the most advanced type about the place. Now that, in a sense, it was a bit of a gimmick story. It was essentially Australian because it's the only place where you could have that sort of thing
happening.
So that's another special case.
Do you think there's any point in exploring the exotic part of Australia for overseas markets. I mean, like having a spaceport in the centre of Australia, do you think overseas investors would accept this as a
reasonable extrapolation and marketing gimmick? Just possible, but I think that, frankly, I think it strains the credibility gap a bit far. I think you'd, again, have your spaceports where in countries where most
of the space development is taking place. I don't think it would include women there. I think the Australian local in this case is a once only job. Yes. You might get away with it once and it's about all. And if you've done
it well, nobody else can do it. That's right. Yes, nobody else can introduce a boomerang, not a prank. John, do you think there's a quality about any Australian science fiction writing which which does set it apart
from the American or British equivalent?
Well it seems to me that there's scarcely enough Australian science fiction to do this and if you were to try and summarize it I think it's really a matter of saying that Most Australian writers have their work
published in British magazines and consequently the sort of fiction that seems to represent Australian science fiction is the sort of stuff that appeals to British editors. Now, it may appeal to British editors
either because they like to see the Colonials making good or it may appeal to the British editors because it didn't appeal to the American editors who pay a lot more. Now, if it's the case that it didn't appeal to the
American editors, then, of course, one could assume that, or one could assume in the days when there were a lot more American editors that perhaps the stories were so attention-grabbing. Nowadays, when there are
fewer editors The prejudices might be very difficult to get around. It may be a different matter, but of course then there are no British magazines nowadays, apart from New Worlds. I think it's fair enough to say that
in the past most Australian science fiction has been written by people who don't make the full-time thing of it the way even some of the British writers have done. Bert Chandler is about the nearest and of course he He
does quite well without the science
fiction. There's one, because I think the ideal thing is to sell a story in America first and then later in Britain. Sometimes you can bring that off, but you get about five times as much of it in the States as John has
pointed out. But one thing that I think Germans have It is a field where editor contact I think is pretty important. If you can actually rough a story out and then contact the editor either by phone or else take the thing
along to him just in a roughed out form and talk it over with him. And then sure on the sale, now you can't do this from a distance. Now I found that I was having to operate this way in America, to some extent. And then later
when I went to England, I found that I sold mostly to Carnell. He goes, I could go along and actually talk to him or ring him up. Now, this saves a tremendous amount of possible lost time in duplicating a story that may have
been put in by somebody else, or perhaps one that you've never heard of, but the editor may know. I think it's fairly important to be absolutely sure that you're selling the thing before you start, or I feel that way.
I've got one little point about that and this is very important for everybody to pay very great attention to. I once wrote a very short story called The Superdense Man. I thought it was extremely good. I sent it to
America and they told me, yes, This is a little bit, it needs pruning. You're obviously a young author and this needs pruning. I wasn't young, I'm in my 50s, but it said it needs pruning. So it got sent back, at least the
rejection slip had a pen and ink signed on the editor on it. I sent it to Michael Moorcock before New World took its first plunge and he said, very good Eric, he said, but it's a little bit too broad approach. It needs a
secondary theme. It needs to be a little bit larger. I sold it to the ABC, exactly the length that it was. And this is very important. It's the same story and it wasn't touched. I always make a practice of giving it a firm or
copy than he needs so that he can cut a bit out to please himself and he still doesn't really harm your story. But now, there's been a lot of talk about loyalty in Australian, professional magazine again and all that sort
of thing. Well, I'm really sure if I was the editor of such a magazine I would not consider trying to get it off the ground using stories by local writers using an Australian low car. Every second or third issue I might
like to do this put in a story like that but I can't see a magazine using the work of Australian writers who wrote solely about Australian problems, Australian futures and Australian environment. It wouldn't be
exotic enough.
John, what do you think? Are there hopes for an Australian magazine? Well, you asked me this at each successive convention, Lee. It's quite obvious you're not satisfied with the answer. Get more doom laden. But on
that particular facet of it, we would need stories from overseas writers as well, wouldn't we, to make it here? Frankly, I've said this at the other conventions, so you know already. You can't make a go of it in
Australia in the orthodox way. You can't do it with a newsstand magazine. Now, if anything should convince people of that, it's what happened with rats. Rats, I don't think, has got many claims with all due respect to
the editors and the many authors whose work has appeared in there, who are in this hall today. Myself, except the professor. I don't think that Rats had a terribly perfect, or that had, might be a little bit
pessimistic. Has a very professional attitude towards either the writers or the readers, for that matter. Certainly it's improved as time's gone by. They proved it could be done. They proved it could be done, but if
you were willing to lose that many hundred dollars a month, it could be done. And frankly, I think that Rats showed that something which had rather broader appeal than a science fiction magazine still couldn't
succeed. Consequently, if you're trying to sell something in a science fiction line, you'd probably have to give it a title like, very small, that is science fiction, then about two-inch letters, four of them. and
science fiction forum. People might just confuse it with another magazine and you get your money that way. I really feel that at a time when England can't support a science fiction magazine, talk about Australia
doing it, is really getting way out. If you consider just the sales that amazing and fantastic have in the States, and the fact that in Australia, magazine would have additional problems of distribution over and
above those, which amazing and fantastic fact. I think it's quite obvious that an orthodox approach to a science fiction magazine in Australia just wouldn't succeed. I don't think that an unorthodox one would
succeed either, but it might have a better chance and that would be to try to do it in the form of a little literary magazine except that you pay the authors. And this, that's a possibility, provided you're willing to put
a $1.50 or $2 price tag on it. And since Vertex has done just that, put the price on it, and it's published some pretty dreadful material models that I don't think it'll survive. But if Vertex does survive, then it
suggests that there's possibly a market for a high-priced magazine, in which case Australia might succeed, provided that you're willing to sell about 150 copies in Australia and the rest in America.
Eric, have you had any experience submitting to the local fiction type magazines like the KG Murray chain or any of those people? What sort of response have you had from them? Very generous and on the whole where they
criticise quite constructive and useful criticism also a couple of sales.
On the whole I think that the KG Murray and that type of magazine is a very good outlet for anybody attempting to break into a market. In fact it's one of the easiest ways I would say as far as local publishers are concerned
for anything of book length so I say you've got a different story. Harking back to John's discussion of the possibility of an Australian magazine I really do feel that a shot in the, a literary shot in the arm such as has
been given by the literary grants recently by this by this present government might have some sort of formal approach to get some form of subsidy for this sort of thing. Quite obviously any art form these days requires
heavy subsidy, I think. The fact that the Lolli Shops and the big stores are absolutely chock-a-block full of science fiction and most of it rehash from way back seems to suggest to me that there's an eager public
waiting to read this stuff. And as they are doing so, the problems are mainly distribution and or taking, virtually taking a financial chance. Now, of course, we can't do this. As you say, any magazine that you do like
this is bound to fly for a few months and then hit the deck. But with a government subsidy, and this, I think, requires some careful thought on the part of people that are not only writers but aspiring writers to lobby, or
to, in some, if you like, a quasi-official sense, say this convention, or any convention for that matter, to make some approach to some official in this respect, to say, well, is it possible to have a literary shot, and
they are somewhat similar to the Council of Arts, the job that was done for new worlds in England. What do you think is possible to do that, John? Do you think it's... Well, after handing out one and a half million,
they're probably willing to throw a few hundred in the direction of science fiction. But then Bert Chandler, as I said, doesn't need it. The approach that's being used by the federal government is, I think, to support
ventures which have been started. And this seems to me to make some sort of business sense. How do the rest of you feel about the rather sharp division here between science fiction and other material? Do you think a
blurring of that line of demarcation might help? I think if you find that sort of thing in some of Koji Murray's publications, man has been running things that you can only call science fiction stories for quite a long
while. I think the Tenth and Mortal was one I remember missing about ten years ago. Oh, they do, do it steadily. They've even published Jack Waddon's when Damien Robert was editing. The whole business of Australian
science fiction and how it actually works out, I think is best demonstrated by a little chore I had several months ago. Wake up, Robin. I was engaged for a couple of months working on a projected multimedia spectacle,
as it was called at one stage, with a theatre in Melbourne. Now, initially, two writers were engaged to work up a synopsis, sort of utilising all these elements, live actors, music and screens. And I submitted a
synopsis and the other writer submitted a synopsis and we had a meeting at the table one night and the synopsis passed around and we all sort of commented on it. And the other writer's synopsis included among its plot
gimmicks is rock, an aboriginal dance,
various or a magician, a medieval magician, but I don't think the Opera House came into it. But we had much talk and to do about this and in half an hour we decided that although the arts, the people in charge of artistic
grants would be terribly pleased to see so much Australia scattered through the production, that when you have an opportunity like this, It's best to go the whole hog and do something which has meaning for everybody
rather than which will just appeal to a minority. And so all those ideas were tossed out and we eventually went to work on something with much broader scope, which would be completely Australian in the people working
on the production. And we were confident that this was sufficient, that why limit yourself to just one small thing when you can reach a whole audience. And I think this is something science fiction does and has to do,
that it has the ability to reach past national barriers and someone in Russia or South Africa can read a story written by somebody in America and the national characteristics don't contribute all that much to a
success. Are there any questions from the audience? Yes sir. One of the things that worries me about is this perennial question about should there be a state of concern in this area. And there's no concept to debate the
country to want the more worthwhile aspect of satisfaction.
on thinking that it may create. It seems to me that the concept of insisting that science fiction be about Australia's and Australia's context and so on, is that another principle that will stay for the sort of late
criticism. It's one thing for us to go on to try to have magazines and so forth that use Australian authors, because they will be that Australian authors are restricted from the opportunities that other waters may
have elsewhere in the world, and in so-so's worth while providing for them. But it's quite a different matter to do so with the sort of paperotic emphasis. I think what Bert Chandler has done is very good. I don't think
Bert is doing it out of paperotic reason, but that's because it's so convenient. How do you do it, by the way? Well, I think, in all high expectations, what Wynn was saying, that the two distinct forms that we're
familiar with, American science fiction and British science fiction, were created by markets, not by individual writers or any patriotism. It was the editors who helped to form the particular literary climate.
And until we have a consistent publishing field here, we will continue to ape overseas styles. But if we had a really dynamic, John W. Campbell working in Australia, he would help to create a form of science fiction,
I'm sure, which would be easily recognizable as different to the overseas. Yes, Bill? Look, could I bring up a point on that just before we... Just before we hit that point. ...while we touch that? On this point, about
the two different types of science fiction developing in America and in England. Now, I think the American one was governed largely by people like Campbell and the other editors, the other editors of... the major
papers there, Poucher. In England, I think that they were set mainly by that little scoring list that used to appear in New Worlds. You know where each story was rated first, second, third, fourth, fifth for the
stories for the previous issue. Can't wind them up, you know. Well, he took a bit of notice on them. I know he might have had to build them up a bit. I think he had. I think he did get some replies. He used to write and tell me
the actual percentage of readers who actually wrote letters into that thing. Yeah, there wasn't many, but I think he did have a sort of a type of thing back there. I think he did actually. It's one of those, anyway. He
took them seriously. Well, I wouldn't say that. Well, the stories I always liked, we always wound up down the bottom of those things, you know, that's it. Yeah, perhaps you like them. Right, all this ballet and all
that. Bill, what were you going to say?
We're virtually an exclave of the European American culture, and that if we're going to produce anything distinctively Australian, sort of degenerates into one of the bare you could work here. Yes, but Bill, this is
purely the background. I do maintain that there are things with the national character. which are valid and which will come out in a story of right, whether it's set 200 years in the future, it will come out, but not
until there's a market to develop it. But the people in the megalopolis of Toronto are very much the same sort of people as there are in the megalopolis of Melbourne. You say that beautifully. Can I hear it again? I've
written it many times, but I'm... I'd
like to answer you on one of those points. I was many years ago in the Megapolis of London and at that particular time they were doing a serial called Journey into Space and it had a juxtaposition between Mars and
Australia. Oh, the very, very clever and interesting one too. And one of the characters in there, Mitch, was, I never, Australia's just cardboard characters as far as I'm concerned, but I remember being completely
thrilled by this Australian background. I don't know whether an Australian author wrote this particular thing, but nevertheless, there's no argument about it. You do write best about that which you know. And if you
know the Australian locale, you can write far more convincingly than you would say in America. Good. I'm going to wind this up in a moment. We've got time for one more question. Here's Ken. We've
got that already, Ken.
Yeah, that's what I reckon. Any dissension on that point? No, I consider Jack Waddon as an Australian. Yes, I do. Okay, well thank you John, Wyn, Eric and thank you Lee. We're vacating this so the next programme item can
go on as scheduled. Thank you for your attention.
She's
a lecturer at Linda's University and she's going to be speaking on children's fantasy.
I ask that it should be said that I don't know very much about science fiction before I started and so I'm saying it. I read science fiction a bit, but I couldn't profess to be expert about it in any way at all. But it
occurred to me that readers of science fiction might be aware that they have some things in common with readers of fantasy, but that they might be less aware that they have the same things in common with readers of
children's books. The title of a collection of essays that arose out of the MLA's forum on science fiction, which was edited by Thomas Clarison in 71, is, I think, interesting in this respect. It's called SF, The Other
Side of Realism.
And the title of a more recently published collection of essays on children's literature, also arising out of an MLA seminar, The Seminar on Children's Literature, was the great excluded. Now the definite article
used in both of those titles indicates, I think, a degree of unawareness of each other among the two groups. It seems to me that we may be involved in the same difficulties and engaged in the same struggle without
benefiting from mutual support and encouragement.
So I'm here today not as an expert on science fiction, which I couldn't claim to be, but to express, and I hope elicit, feelings of solidarity.
The introductory essay in that Clairson collection begins with the point made by Fred Poll at the MLA SF Forum in 68. The point that, and I quote, It didn't matter what had been written in the field of science fiction.
The real difficulty in obtaining a critical hearing, particularly among librarians and academics at all levels, lay in that from 1926, when Hugo Gernsback founded Amazing Stories, the first pulp devoted
exclusively to the genre, until the 1940s at least, SF had lived amid garish covers and poor print and rough edges, so that You usually carry them home under your coat because you didn't want anyone to know what you were
reading. That situation is quite familiar to me and to students in my children's literature course. They tend to carry their books around under their coat too. But the important phrase is the real difficulty in
obtaining a critical hearing. And it arose, I think, out of being identified in the critical mind with popular rather than with serious literature. And this is a difficulty which children's literature also faces.
Although it has the support of some librarians, who are known as children's librarians, and some academics like myself, who are known as our expert on kitty lit, it's not discussed in histories of 20th century
literature, nor do works of children's literature any more commonly than science fiction books turn up on academic English courses devoted to the modern novel.
The other similarity between the position of science fiction and the position of children's literature is indicated by that title of the Claeson Collection of Essays, The Other Side of Realism. In fact, although
like SF, children's books, especially written for children, can be traced back earlier to the early 18th century. In fact, Golliver's travels is a very interesting text for the history of both our genres. The
concept of children's literature dates from exactly the same period, that is the 1870s and 1880s, as does the concept of science fiction. And it was affected in exactly the same way by the acceptance of realism as a
criterion for seriousness in the novel. In fact, I was very, very struck when I read this in Clairson's own essay in this collection, this paragraph. He points out that the realist doctrine, we might call it, was in
fact based at least in the way that Zola argued for it on some analogy with scientific procedure so that the modern realist novel could have been called science fiction, but it wasn't. Instead, he said, that name has
been given to a kind of fantasy which took shape as a diverse recognizable genre during the same period which saw the rise of literary realism 1870 to 1910. It made use of such established conventions as the imaginary
voyage and the utopia, and had seen earlier expression in the works of such authors as Mary Shelley and Poe, but it didn't coalesce into a distinctly separate modern fantasy until the last decades of the 19th century.
The parallel with children's literature is very, very exact. In fact, I opened the very first lecture I ever gave at Fender's on children's literature by pointing to just that period as a period of crisis.
It certainly was decisive in the development of 20th century prose fiction and attitudes towards it. In England, the advocate of that new wave fashion as it then was of realism was Henry James. And from the point of
view of children's literature, the opposition between Henry James and Robert Louis Stevenson is most instructive. From the point of view of science fiction, I suppose, it's the opposition between James and H.G.
Wells, which is illuminating.
Now at the time that realism was adopted from France into English criticism, it seemed to mean two disparate things. First, that the artist should aim for very similitude in presentation. And secondly, that novels
should include previously prohibited material, which at that time largely referred to sex and the working class. Now, as far as the requirement for various similitudes concerned, It's only really checkable, if
you think about it, in novels about contemporary life. Novels set in the past, in the future, or in some completely imaginary world, are simply not checkable for their very similitude. And Henry James demanded that
novels be checkable in this way. He liked, he said, to be able to say yes or no, at any stage of reading a novel. And he suggested that this is how novels should be read, dispassionately, objectively, with the reader
keeping a sufficient distance from the book to be able to judge its truth. In other words, I presume its truth to life in what was being presented. Now, you can see how this rules out fantasy, which is not about real life
by definition. And you can see also how it rules out the historical novel, which might have been checkable once, but no longer is. And an SF book, which is set in the future, is in a very odd position in this argument. It
perhaps can be seen in retrospect to have been a very good book. Or it can become a very good book. But it can't be a good book or be known to be a good book at the time of publication. Well, that's an absurd situation, since
the book hasn't changed, nor has the literary value by which it's being measured, that of being true to life. So if the book hasn't changed and the values haven't changed, how can it get better? Or qualify in any other
way for being called good? And I think that the tendency to make the value of SF dependent on the accuracy of its predictions was a somewhat indefensible critical attitude which was brought about by pressure from that
criterion of being true to life, which was an effect, again, of the rise to dominance of realism as the definition of a serious novel, a novel that could be considered as a work of art. The criticism of children's
literature has been forced into some equally absurd postures, you'll be glad to know, by this pressure from realism. If you read books about children's literature and turn to the chapter on fantasy, you'll almost
invariably find the critic expending a great deal of energy explaining how it is that fantasy is good for children, though not good for adults. They will tell you that children like fantasy and adults don't and
probably explain this with some reference to the recapitulation theory of human development. That is the theory sometimes called the culture epoch theory where each individual recapitulates the development of
the species as a whole. Thus, according to this theory, children are like primitives. They're ignorant and curious about the world and seek explanations in fantasy because they cannot differentiate between a
plausible and an implausible explanation. And you'll notice in passing that this assumes that children like fantasy because they believe it's true, whereas adults dislike it because they know it's not. There's a
great deal of interesting discussion hinging on that too. For the moment, all I wish to point out is that critics of children's literature have come up with elaborate explanations for what may not be the case at all,
namely that children like fantasy and adults don't, largely because they've been unwilling to face the fact that fantasy had been merely abandoned by influential writers and critics when they adopted the somewhat
narrow version of realism which flourished in the first half of this century. And this seems to me to be exactly comparable to the reaction of SF critics who were willing to have the excellence of SF as literature
depend on the accuracy of its predictions. So that it could be seen at least in retrospect as having been true to life, or being true to life. Now the second aspect of realism that I mentioned was the inclusion of
previously prohibited material Now that was advocated by Henry James in an essay that he published on the brink of this century in 1899 called The Future of the Novel. And he complained about the absence of sex, which
by the way he called, quote, the great relation between men and women, the constant world renewal, in the English novel. The reason he advanced was that the English novel had been handicapped by its family
readership, by what he called the presence of the ladies and the children, by whom, he said, in other words, I mean the reader, irreflective and uncritical. The future of the novel The future of the novel, which she
also called, in other words, the great prose fable, rested, according to James, on, what it decided to do with respect to the young. He declared, in fact, by what it decides to do with respect to the young, the great
prose fable will, from any serious point of view, practically see itself stand or fall. And in fact, what James was recommending was that the children be sent away to play. with their mothers, of course, so that the
serious novelist could be free to talk about sex. And since he classed all but novels about contemporary life, non-serious or romances, that included Jules Verne and H.G. Wells as well as Robert Louis Stevenson.
This exclusion has done incalculable harm to children's reading. Books were divided then into serious literature for adults, one might almost say adult males only, and the rest. And the rest, seeing themselves as
popular literature, defined themselves thus in negatives. Now, since James made so much of his case rest on the young, it's not surprising that the effect was most noticeable in the area of children's literature.
Since serious novels were defined as dealing with sex, children's literature was defined as not dealing with sex, which has been kept out of children's books successfully for most of the last 70 years. And the fuss
you might have noticed in the press recently about what's called the new realism in children's books is in fact an attempt to reintroduce topics such as sex, politics, satire and so on into children's books and thus
catch up 70 years later with serious adult fiction. Now one expects that reaction in children's literature but it's surprising that I've found that something very similar seemed to happen in science fiction. Until
the last few years I understand sex has been strikingly absent from science fiction, and there too has fairly recently, that isn't the last decade, made a comeback. Someone might be able to put me right on that point,
but it's what I've gathered from my recent reading. I think it's an indication of the pervasiveness of that elitist critical doctrine of James's that it so successfully preempted the topic of sex from all other modes
of serious writing, except the so-called realistic.
Well, having sketched some ways in which I believe that the rise of realism had a similar impact on the genre of children's literature and on the one hand and science fiction on the other, And I'd like to turn to some of
the effects of that joint exclusion. And it seems to me that they are by and large, though not wholly, bad. And that for that reason, it is proper to try to achieve serious critical consideration for our respective
genre, rather than to give away the whole business of literary criticism and especially academic literary criticism as a bad elitist job. Now, the worst effect, I think, of being identified as popular rather than as
serious seems to me to be conservatism.
John would get defined by publishers, bookshops and exchanges by an estimation which they make of a book's market. If you go into a book exchange looking for Dune, you go to the science fiction section. But where do you
find war and peace? In the war book section? And crime and punishment in the murder mystery section? Now all the sections say science fiction, war, murder, romance, historical, children and so on. and the market for
each is predicted by the publisher and a book which has no predictable market and yet is clearly not serious literature on which you might be prepared to take a risk for prestige reasons, for instance that it's fantasy
but it seems to be written towards adults or something, will have great difficulty in getting published at all. You see Mr Swift All books about little people go into the children's section and children are just not
interested in politics, so I'm afraid Mr Swift, that although we thought your travel book was just fascinating, we have to turn it down.
So stereotypes of an audience get built up by people who are obviously not willing to risk money backing an experiment in something that's meant to be popular, whoever heard of a non-popular, popular novel. And so
second-hand shots, I suppose. And in fact, These stereotypes limit what reaches the audience and in turn make the audience more limited in its tastes and so become self-fulfilling. And all this operates against the
emergence of outstanding or revolutionary writers and this operates against development, change and advances in the genre. So being identified as popular rather than serious literature can have the effect of
making a genre as a whole conservative and discouraging of experiment, which I think is a bad thing. Another effect is to encourage the idea that popularity is an index of merits. And I think this might, if I understand
your program correctly, be reflected in your procedure for awarding your DITMA awards on the basis of a majority vote. Now, you might argue that anyone interested in coming to the conference must be an expert in the
sense of having read a fair amount of science fiction. But I suggest to you that that isn't a criteria used elsewhere for selecting people whose judgment you can trust. Criticism is, I think, a very practical
business. We read the critics or reviewers whose judgment we've learned to trust. in the expectation that they'll help us enjoy books more or enjoy more books. And we select those critics on the basis of experience.
That is, the critics who produced more recommendations which turned out to be fulfilled in our experience of the book subsequently. And we discriminate between critics and reviewers constantly on those grounds.
And the grounds that the critics offer to us are not those of popularity. I don't think we'd be much influenced by a reviewer who says, read this, because a million other people have read it. No matter how many copies
are, for instance, an Agatha Christie novel is sold, we won't believe that it's a better novel than crime and punishment on those grounds.
Now in the field of children's books, all sorts of peculiar arguments are constructed to explain why popularity should be taken into account. It's suggested, for instance, that since children's tastes are
absolutely different from adults' tastes, there's no way of finding out what's best for them other than by observing their own preferences. Thus, there was some official critical justification at hand for those
who protested against the dropping of Enid Blyton from children's libraries. But children love her books was the cry. You'd never hear people seriously argue that children should have lollies for breakfast just
because that's what they'd prefer. The reason being that people know that something other than taste is involved, nutrition. And some children's literature critics try to make use of this analogy by talking about a
healthy, emotional and intellectual diet for the proper mental development of children. And I'm afraid that sort of talk makes me feel a bit sick. I think, however, that one can construct an argument without having
recourse to that analogy on the grounds that it's better in the long run for people to have experience of a variety of tastes, and even that some tastes are more satisfying than others. So the child who gets a proper
balanced, nutritious diet, all tasting of lollies, is still being deprived. I believe you've probably come across arguments of that sort in relation to the supposed dehydrated carefully selected tablet-formed
meals of the supposed future. But the general point is, of course, that are made in those books and that I'm making now is that tastes can develop and they can improve and that in our ordinary behaviour we assume that to
be so. even if you find some people, and some of them, I'm afraid, colleagues of mine in English departments, arguing that all taste is relative and de Gustivus Norne's district handle. And therefore, that
popularity is not necessarily the best index of merit. What we look for is qualified critics, the critics that we have learned from our experience, that we can trust their judgment. Now genres such as children's
literature and science fiction, which were some 70 years ago or so pushed willy-nilly into the class of popular literature, have, I'm suggesting, suffered from the temptation to regard popularity as an index of
merit. So on these and other grounds, I think it's vital to keep fighting for critical recognition for the best books in our genres and not to give up and disgust, no matter how irrational or prejudiced the opposition
may be. Now, within children's literature, the impression I have after a few years' fairly intensive reading and teaching is that the majority of the best books published for children over the last 40 or 50 years have
been fantasy of one kind or another. And the reasons for this are not far to seek. Fantasists found it virtually impossible to find an audience elsewhere, that is, to get their work published except as children's
literature. So, fantasists, no matter how good, were forced to write for children. A realistic writer's work could get published as an adult book, even if it concerned a child or an adolescent, like a book like The
Catcher in the Rye is a case in point. But a fantasist could not. And on the other hand, it's also true that fantasy was so despised that one could get away with a great deal by writing in fantasy which one could not get away
with in realism for children. So a writer who wanted to write for children would be likely to turn to fantasy to escape the cramping restrictions placed on pseudo realism for children.
Now when I think of these best works over the last 50 years, I find that titles that come most readily to mind tend not to be works in science fiction. But if anything, they're oriented towards the past and towards
historical fantasy. I'm thinking of not only writers like Tolkien and C.S. Lewis, but Philip of Pierce, Tom's Midnight Garden, Alan Garner's Owl Service, Elador, Moon of Gomorrah, William Main's Earth Fasts, Lucy
Boston's Green No Books, Mary Norton's Borrowers Books, and most recently, Russell Holman's Marvellous Book, The Mouse and His Child, which I recommend. Now, I'm afraid that the reason for the absence of science
fiction from the list is not far to see, either. And that is this outlet. The outlet for adult science fiction was available in the magazines, which we've just been talking about, and which have played such an
important part in the development of your genre. And the depressing thing is that when writers can get the adult audience, especially if it's the adult male audience, that is what they'll go for, and leave
second-rateers to fall back on writing for children. I say especially in adult male audience because we might compare the situation in children's literature of science fiction with that of the historical novel,
the straight historical novel. You remember that the historical novel was disqualified in the same way that SF set in the future was disqualified from consideration as true to life. And you remember further that the
genres pushed out into the popular literature category got market typed. Well, it seems clear to me that science fiction got market typed as male and the historical novel got market typed as female. The readership of
science fiction is, I think, still largely male, and that of the historical novel is females and children. The historical novel has in fact flourished much more in children's literature than has, until recently,
science fiction. And that clearly shows, I think, that when a genre is relegated to women and children readers, writers would assume right for children as for women. But where they have an opportunity to write for a
male adult audience, they will take it more readily and not entertain the possibility of writing for children. And I suspect, though I might again be corrected that the The slow trickle of women writers into the field
of science fiction has increased the chances of science fiction getting written for children. Since that's another amiable feature of the influence of sex stereotypes on reading habits, that it's assumed that
women will want to write for children.
Although I haven't come across as yet any work of science fiction for children, which is as good as the fantasy works which I cited earlier, I have come across some ones that I think are very good. And one of the features
which makes books less than first-rate, I think, is the assumption that issues must be simplified for children. And one side effect of this is that you tend to get very clear statements of the going themes and perhaps
prejudices in books for children, which is in often itself to make them interesting reading. So I thought that it would be of some interest to compare in some detail two children's books, which both seem to me to be very
good, though not at the first rank, one of which is science fiction, nor not purely science fiction, and the other, historical fantasy. Both of these are described as mixtures, incidentally, in their blurbs. The
science fiction book is described as a mixture of science fiction and fantasy, and the historical fantasy is described as a mixture of fantasy and truth.
Now, these two books, that's Madeline Lengel's A Wrinkle in Time, which some of you might know, and Pauline Clark's The Twelve and the Genie, both came out about 10 years ago, I think in the same year. And Madeline
Lengel's book won the Newbury Medal, the children's books in America, and Pauline Clark's the English Medal, Carnegie Medal. So I think they're very comparable as books. Now, Madeline Lengel's book, A Wrinkle in
Time, concerns three children who go on a quest through a tesseract or wrinkle in time in search of a scientist who's the father of two of them. They have to rescue their father from the dark planet Kamazotz, which is in
the power of an evil force, customarily referred to as it. They're given some initial assistance by three Aliens, I suppose they are, who in the form that they most frequently materialise before the children are
three rather comic old women, which is really Mrs. What's It, Mrs. Who and Mrs. Which. Now apart from rescuing their father, the children are in this action participants in a wider struggle between the evil force
represented by it, and the rest of the universe, which is trying to resist being engulfed. And we gather, though it's not explained, that merely getting their father back alive constitutes a major, though
temporary, victory in this ongoing struggle. Something like Don Kirk, in fact. Now, the Twelve and the Genie also involves three children and a rescue mission. One of these children finds in these three are
siblings. One of them finds in the attic of their New Yorkshire home, an old bundle containing 12 century old wooden soldiers, which he unexpectedly discovers a capable of coming to life, and that they have lengthy
and interesting histories of former campaigns, and names such as Buttercrashie and Gravy and Cheehee and Stumps and so on, and that they were formally protected by some children, or at least humans, that they refer
to as the genie. And this child, Max, who discovers them, they refer to as a new genie. And Max and his sister, two of the children, become protectors of the gallant troupe. The troupe is known as the 12, the children as
the genie. They learn, however, that the toys of the former property of the Bronte family, who invented the stories and then doubt the toys with the history that the toys recount to them, and whose former home,
Holworth, is nearby. The existence of the soldiers, however, is a matter of historical interest, especially to literary academics. And an American professor offers to buy them for 5,000 pounds. And the third child
of the family, an older boy, who along with his parents and everyone else doesn't know of the special properties of animation of the soldiers, writes offering to sell them. And as the prospect of being sent to some
American museum doesn't appeal to the 12, the two children determined to return the soldiers to their former home at Horworth instead. But fittingly, the soldiers must be allowed to retain their dignity, freedom
and independence by making the massive two or three mile trek themselves at night and in secret because the place is soon swarming with reporters and people both greedy and curious. And the mission is accomplished,
as is the mission in Wrinkle in Time, with some nasty moments and mishaps. And the toys are returned to the Harworth nursery, where they are frozen wooden soldiers with featureless faces by day and living
personalities by night.
Now, the way that these two stories, which are both very interesting and readable, reveal some of the common places, as it were, of the genres to which they belong is likely through theme and characterisation rather
than through plot. As I have indicated, both plots are structured on the old rescue quest motif. But consider first the themes and characterisation of a wrinkle in time. The central character in that novel is a
pubescent girl who's introduced as a plain, awkward, misfit, warmly attached to her family, but not a failure at school. She has in fact the classical, ugly duckling attributes, raises on her teeth, and mouse-brown
hair, and we can predict, I think, from these props that she'll turn out to be a swan. The sibling to whom she's particularly attached, and with whom she shares her adventure, is her baby brother, Charles Wallace.
Again, we can deduce that he is introduced as having, that he is special from the fact that he's introduced as having the local reputation of being subnormal in the neighborhood. And we can deduce from that the fact
that he is indeed a genius. But just in case we're in any doubt on that point, the third page of the story, when nothing much has appeared except Meg's thoughts as she gets out of bed on a windy night, her reflections are
extended to include the following reminiscence. thinking about Charles Wallace. How did Charles Wallace always know about her? How could he always tell? He never knew or seemed to care what Dennis or Sandy were
thinking. It was his mother's mind and Meg's that he probed with frightening accuracy. Was it because people were a little afraid of him that they whispered about the Murray's youngest child who was rumoured to be not
quite bright? I've heard that clever people often have subnormal children. Meg had once overheard. The two boys seemed to be nice, regular children, but that unattractive girl and the baby boy certainly aren't all
there. It was true that Charles Wallace Seldom spoke when anybody was around, so that many people thought he'd never learn to talk. And it was true that he hadn't talked at all until he was almost four. Meg would turn
white with fury when people looked at him and clucked, shaking their heads, sadly. Don't worry about Charles Wallace, Meg. Her father had once told her. Meg remembered it very clearly because it was shortly before he
went away. There's nothing to matter with his mind. He just does things in his own way and in his own time. I don't want him to grow up to be dumb like me, Meg had said. Oh my darling, you're not dumb. Her father answered,
you're like Charles Wallace. Your development has to go at its own pace. It just doesn't happen to be the usual pace. How do you know Meg had demanded? How do you know I'm not dumb? Is it just because you love me? I love you,
but that's not what tells me. Mother and I have given you a number of tests, you know. Yes, that was true. Meg had realized that some of the games her parents played with her were tests of some kind, that there had been more
for her and Charles Wallace than for the twins. IQ tests, you mean? Yes, some of them. Is my IQ okay? More than okay. What is it? That I'm not going to tell you, but it assures me that both you and Charles Wallace will be able
to do pretty much whatever you like when you grow up to yourselves. You just wait till Charles Wallace starts to talk. You'll see how right he'd been.
So, of course, the two children are more than very intelligent. They're super intelligent. There are, as you gather, two other siblings, twins who are nearly normal, and don't therefore figure in the story very
much. The third participant in the adventure is, in fact, from another family. In fact, from an underprivileged family of 11 children, which we learn within the first dozen lines of dialogue after he appears. He's
challenged in the woods by Meghan Charles Wallace going off to see Mrs. Watsett. And he's asked why he's there, and he answers, I just came to get away from my family. Charles Wallace nodded. What kind of family? They
all have running noses. I'm third from the top of 11 kids. I'm a sport. At that, Charles Wallace grinned widely. So am I. I don't mean like in baseball, Calvin said. Neither do I. I mean like in biology, Calvin said
suspiciously. And of course, Charles Wallace knows just what he's talking about. Now, Calvin, I think he's 14, his description of his family is runny nose, nothings, among whom he is a sport because he's bright.
seems to me to be somewhat callow, but I accept it in reading the story because the boy's only 14 and since this book already presents itself as one in which family solidarity is emphasised, one assumes that his
contempt for his own ordinary family and his admiration for the special Murray family will be straightened out sometime later in the story. But what happens immediately is that the highly intelligent special
Murray family takes into its bosom and treats him like an orphan. The genius infant Charles Wallace invites him to dinner, and when Calvin denies, on account of the invitation not issuing from Charles Wallace's
mother, who does, after all, scientist or no scientist have to do the cooking, Charles Wallace replies, oh, she'd be delighted. Mother's all right. She's not one of us, but she's all right. What about Meg? Meg has it
tough, Charles Wallace said. She's not really one thing or the other. What do you mean, one of us, Meg demanded? What do you mean I'm not one thing or the other? Not now, Meg, Charles Wallace said. Slowly, I'll tell you
about it later.
So, so the trio who are selected for the adventure consists of two male children who belong to a select group of geniuses and a girl who has it tough because she's neither clearly exceptional nor clearly ordinary. And
what happens is, of course, that the girl becomes the heroine of the adventure. An adolescent love relationship develops between herself and the 14-year-old Calvin. The genius infant gets sucked in by the monster
and has to be rescued along with the father. Note that he gets sucked in precisely because he's the most intelligent and most special of the trio. The girl manages to pull off the rescue of both father and then
subsequently brother because out of all of them, father, Calvin, Charles Wallace and herself and the father. She is the one who has a gift which the monster has not got. She's told this, but she's not told what the gift
is. And here's the climax. I bet you've guessed it already. When she has returned to the central chamber where the giant exposed brain, which is it, has Charles Wallace imprisoned. There was a sudden sucking and she
was within. It was as though the wind had been knocked out of her. She gasped for breath, for breath in her own rhythm, not the permeating pulsing of it. She could feel the inexorable beat within her body, controlling
her heart, her lungs, but not herself. Not Meg, it didn't quite have her. She blinked her eyes rapidly and against the rhythm until the redness before them cleared and she could see. There was the brain, there was it
lying, pulsing and quivering on the days, soft and exposed and nauseating. Charles Wallace was crouched beside it. His eyes still slowly twirling, his jaw still slack as she'd seen him before, with the ticking as for
it reiterating the revolting rhythm of it. As she saw him, it was again as though she had been punched in the stomach, but she had to realise afresh that she was seeing Charles, and yet it was not Charles at all. Where was
Charles Wallace? Her own beloved Charles Wallace. What is it that I've got that it hasn't got? You have nothing that it hasn't got, Charles Wallace said proudly. How nice to have you back, dear sister. We've been
waiting for you. We knew that Mrs. Watson would send you. She's our friend, you know. From a pouring moment Meg believed, and in that moment she felt her brain being gathered up into it. No, she screamed at the top of her
lungs. No, you lie! For a moment she was free from its clutches again. As long as I can stay angry enough, it can't get me. Is that what I have that it doesn't have? Nonsense, Charles Wallace said. You have nothing that it
doesn't have. You're lying, she replied, and she felt only anger towards this boy who was not Charles Wallace at all. No, it wasn't anger. It was loathing. It was hatred, sheer and unadulterated. And as she became lost
in hatred, she also began to be lost in it. The red miasma swam before her eyes. Her stomach churned in its rhythm. Her body trembled with the strength of her hatred and the strength of it. With the last vestige of
consciousness, she jerked her mind and body. Hate was nothing that it didn't have. It knew all about hate. You're lying about that and you're lying about Mrs. Wotsit, she screamed. Mrs. Wotsit hates you, Charles
Wallace said. And that was where it made its fatal mistake. For as Meg said automatically, Mrs. Wotsit loves me. That's what she told me, that she loves me. Suddenly she knew. She knew. Love. That was what she had that it
didn't have. She had Mrs. Wotsit love and her fathers and her mothers. and the real Charles Wallace's love and the twins and aunties, and she had her love for them. And that, of course, is what she uses.
So it's love, family love, which achieves the rescue, and that's what Meg has, that her male partners in adventure do not. They have brains, she has love. And in the final family reconciliation, Calvin is included as
one of the elite Murray family, which now has everything. There are a number of points which I think are worth noting, but perhaps I should talk about them after I've outlined the character and theme of Pauline Clark's
book, The Twelve Magini. The central character in this book is the young boy. Once again it's a young boy who has special gifts of intuition which make him the person for whom the toy soldiers come alive. Once again he's
presented as intelligent but this time just ordinarily intelligent not a genius. Once again there's an older sister who shares the adventure Once again, what they have to offer is distinguished carefully. He is
more intense in his reaction to the toy soldiers, more passionate. She is more careful, thoughtful and tender. And once again, there's also a 14-year-old boy involved. This time, as I said, a sibling. And this book,
an English book, avoids sex completely. The older sibling is, in fact, the one who threatens the safety of the 12 and is an airing child. You know, the typical childhood airingness, meanness, money-grubbing,
slightly bullying of younger siblings. The explanation of the soldiers coming alive that is offered is that the genius of the Brontes brought them to life. A metaphor for creativity, in fact, made actual and
literal. But the children of the story, Max and Jane, are not geniuses. So why do the soldiers come to life for them? And the explanation is predictable again. And when Max finally reads the Bronte's Juvenilia with the
invented history of the toy soldiers called the young men, he reflects. And the genie imagined them all so real, he thought to himself, that the young men, that's the soldier's name for themselves, still remember.
They're still alive. Could this be what it was? and then he felt thinking of them in turn and which he loved best. He told Jane and his mother that nobody could love anything more than he loved the 12s now. And this was
true. He wondered if this was another reason why they were so lively because he loved them and they trusted him. And he saw it again, the power of love coupled with the creative imagination which comes into play. There
is a somewhat religious cast to the Twelve and the Genius, which is also present in A Wrinkle in Time. In the Twelve and the Genius, a friendly parson is allowed to see the Twelve's triumphal re-entry into Harworth's
parsonage. And the parson, Mr. Haweson, thought, I cannot believe it, and yet here they are before my eyes, such is the power of genius to make things alive. So do the creative genie echo their creator. And this is a
chord which is also struck in a wrinkle in time when Mrs. Watsit, the comforter, explains that the children are not alone in their fight. And we're not alone, you know, children came, Mrs. Watson, the comforter, all
through the universe it's being fought, all through the cosmos, and my, but it's a grand and exciting battle. I know it's hard for you to understand about size, how there's very little difference in the size of the
tiniest microbe in the greatest galaxy. You think about that, you think about that, sorry, and maybe it won't seem strange to you that some of our very best fighters have come right from your own planet. And it's a
little planet, dears, out on the edge of a little galaxy. You can be proud that it's done so well. Who are our fighters being? Calvin asked. Oh, you must know them dear, Mrs. Watson said. Mrs. Who's spectacles shone out
at them triumphantly, and the light shineth in darkness, and the darkness comprehended it not. Jesus, Charles Wallace said. Why, of course, Jesus. Of course, Mrs. Watson said. Go on, Charles Love, there were
others. All your great artists, there have been lights for us to see by. Leonardo da Vinci, with Calvin's suggested tentatively, and Michelangelo, and Shakespeare, Charles Wallace called out, and Bach, and
Pasteur, and Madame Curie, and Einstein. Now Calvin's voice rang with confidence, and Schweitzer, and Gandhi, and Buddha, and Beethoven, and Rembrandt, and St. Francis, and so on.
The family background in the 12 and the genie is comfortable, intelligent, middle class, but it's much less important there than in wrinkled in time. And there is no, I'm glad to say, Cinderella-type rescue of a
working-class child displaced out of its proper intelligence.
A funny name, is all it is, that the soldiers give Max. It gradually exposes its other conventional meanings of genius, a very creative intelligence, and then the root sense which is related to generate and creating
life. In fact, I have to say that although I consider both books good, I do consider the twelve and the genie better because it's a subtler book. I find it less offensive in its social attitudes and less partisan about
the values it espouses. Madeleine Lengel places so much emphasis on the superiority of brains in the early part of the book that she has to make the apotheosis of the power of love very melodramatic in order to
counterbalance the emphasis of the earlier book. Now, although you might think it's a large conclusion to draw from illustrations just from two books, I think that difference does arise from the fact that the
science fiction writer writing for children is aware that there is an alternative adult audience somewhere else for science fiction and therefore is much more inclined to oversimplify and overdramatize when
writing for children than the writer of fantasy, historical fantasy, who has no real alternative. Thanks for listening.
Yeah. I remember when I was, you know, you had to come home with that. I thought it was very bad stuff. I didn't get past all the few pages. What I really liked, it was Andrej Norsen and Robert Ackermann. Yes, quite. Yes,
quite. I happened, I was born in Red Two or Three Beach in their books, and I thought they were good. The reason I chose the Madeline Lengel book was because of the exact parallel in time and treatment and things like
that. I don't think I chose it as a prejudice choice. Now, let me see. Yes, all I can say is that I do think the Doctor Northman and Hannah and Hannah are quite good, but I've only read one or two of each of their books. What
are the reviews on Imagine Faraway? Yeah, I can't really answer that with much immediate knowledge either, because I've never read it since I was a kid. I think, I remember rightly, People do seem to think that that's
Enid Biden's best writing. That's where she wrote the best. What people object to is largely the limited vocabulary of her books and the somewhat unhappy social attitudes that some of them present. Do you think not
unlike the social attitudes of the Marilyn Engel book, actually, and that you find all over children's fiction?
even if I can seem to have less and less to redeem her. The point is that she wasn't sort of banned. She just sort of fell off the bottom of the list where librarians have only a certain amount of money to buy books each year
where the standard of children's literature has been rising over the last 20 years. She has simply gone down in merit as well as everything else because she's been surpassed that film. But apart from not buying new
things, they also grabbed the old stuff, right? They said it wasn't going to be replaced, yeah. I said they didn't take it out of the show. No, no, but you know, as books wear out, they weren't replaced, yeah. You
compared England flight and insurance literature, being popular, but not good because of that. probably
because children's libraries perhaps have less funds you know that the collection is will be smaller you'll find in the children's library than in adult library and granted that they have small funds they feel that
they have to be careful in their choosing. But it's also the fact that children's librarians feel, you know, the ones that I've talked to feel that they have an important responsibility in selecting books for
children, you know, that you can in fact influence children's tastes by the range of what is available to them. And, you know, I think one would have to agree a child who never gets near, you know, any great selection of
books as being deprived in some way, I agree,
and yet I think that if you take out the children's libraries and what children like, you're going to be able to work with them. Oh yes, that would certainly be true if you use that as a criterion for putting things out. I
mean, it doesn't work the other way. A book being popular doesn't mean that it's good, but it doesn't mean that it's bad either. And to hear some of the elitist critics talk, you would think that it did. And that's
strongly suggested by Henry. James's attitude in that essay, The Future of the Novel, he seemed absolutely dismayed that the novel was galloping so in popularity. He thought that simply being popular would reduce
its chances of being art. Now, we don't call that obviously. Oh, I think that there's nothing attaching to the form of pictures with balloons and so on that makes it good, bad, or indifferent. I presume they have
exactly the same potentiality for being good, bad, and indifferent comics as wholly text books have of being good, bad, and indifferent.
a lot
of the funny things that people say when they're talking about children's books and children's reading I have arisen out of the circumstances that I've been talking about. That is, they've been forced into an almost
indefensible position. That and the very fact that they feel very proper responsibility may make them more anxious about this or that or the other being good for children.
Wouldn't it be right in thinking of the general Australian writers of children's books? are doing better in satisfaction before you were not really too happy about how well you were doing that. They're doing jolly
well, as you're probably thinking of the fact that I haven't settled on the Carnegie Prize last year.
that the peculiar situation with children's books is that it is so very international. The translation activity, for instance, in children's books is much, much higher than it is in adult novels of any kind. And it's
quite interesting to speculate about that. I'm not quite sure why it comes about. It may be because children's books aren't likely to be offensive in any way or at all. I don't really know but in fact children's books
travel. And of course the well-meaning people who promote children's books are also in favour of other general good ideas like international understanding. So they want kids to read books about how children live in
other countries and things like this. All those sorts of factors might contribute. Well,
I actually don't like the whole definition of a genre. I think somebody in the panel before was wondering if what we might gain from going for breaking down the boundaries, breaking down the notion that we have a
specific genre. I'm very much in favour of that as far as children's books are concerned. I
was just thinking, you
know, because of the babbles on the wall of the city, of the towers on the edge, ends on the catapult. have been recommended by adults and children. Oh, I see. Yeah. Nothing on the grid. No, quite. And you see this
withholding from children of horrific material, I think, has only produced a massive underground in horrific material. You know,
listen to children's playground rhymes. You wouldn't get anything more horrific than some of them.
What we were making about the provisional librarians setting themselves up to form the funding taste for all the places of children could go too far. in seeking to do this, I know you can't go completely in the other
direction and allow the level of pacifism to find itself. And as professionals, just follow the popular trend to start to be a balance, particularly with the children's development agenda. I think that this is
virtually the reason such as ours. I've noticed that in over a decade of contact with a certain family, there is a continuous tension between those people that read what the literati call badly written books which are
very popular and which cater to a low level of public taste and books which they consider works of by artistic standard in which the people who enjoy the more popular and badly written stuff find jolly hard to read. And
the fact that the literati discusses amongst themselves as a kind and elitist group in the family. I see. One thing I've noticed in recent years is that the tendency for the two groups to more or less come together is the
gradual increase in the place. And the gradual appreciation of qualities in the bad books that are far the way around here, the qualities that make them good, the spiritual lens for the series, the moral world. In
fact, thank you Mr. Constance. Yes, there's obviously a private dispute in there somewhere but I think that A cult, and I don't mean that as a pejorative word, is just what you get, like you know that the Tolkien has a
massive sort of fairly private following, is just what you get when something is excluded from proper recognition and people feel that it ought to be talked about.
Sorry? Yeah. But I would like such groups not to turn their back on the possibility that what they actually want is critical recognition for the genre, which once achieved, they can then dissolve themselves. I mean,
at least in a sense you can, that is to regard yourself as a pressure group.
You see, although I have started up a special course at Lenders called Children's Literature, and that amounts to acknowledging that it is separate, I've done that because it's the only way I could get to teach it in a
university at all. What I hope in time is that I will be able to persuade my colleagues to consider books like Alice in Wonderland when they're making up 19th century novel courses, you see. And if that happens, then my
course can go away because children's literature will have its proper place. And I hope that you would feel the same about science fiction. I was told
by my mum that I spent it to a school board and it had too much social comfort. We all
know children aren't interested in politics. You should examine again the politics of any school.
I think those sorts of stereotypes are very limiting and harmful.
I wanted to speak before, but I don't know
where to interview. Friends like them. I was very interested in the way we referred to the fact that the fantasy writer doesn't have an athlete like the science fiction writer and turns to children's fantasy. I also
think there's another aspect here that there are some science fiction writers to write to children's books, but choose to write in fantasy when they write to the children, as you know that we do. She writes an
excellent science fiction and speaking of herself as a writer, when I do write to children, I would really prefer to write in fantasy because I want you to strip away the pseudo-philosophical pretensions of science
fiction. the mind game and all that goes with it and bring it down to children's fiction itself. It's very restrictive. I see. To try and do science fiction at a lower level, you think, is not really on. Because once the
ideas have to lose their complexity, they lose their interest. Yes, quite. And I think that's why there is not as much good science fiction. Yes, quite. I think there are some ideas which are, at the same time, simple
and mind-boggling. The book that I recommended, Highly the Mousson, His Child, is very much concerned with the idea of infinity. It's a beautiful book, really marvellous. Do you think we've got a right to
counter-casual children's literature? I'm afraid maybe that that's a stupid name because you obviously read it. I like the German
language. It's more or less just plain fancy literature. Oh, no, that's what I was talking about today, but I am interested in old books that come out with a puffin on its cover or a dragon on, you know. In fact, that's how
it happens often. People submit a manuscript into their surprise to get a letter saying it's been referred to the children's editor. What are the issues with textbooks? There were two of them in America. That's
right. That's right, yeah. And it's gone the other way too. There are some, I think there was one prize winning book, I think by Rue Mcgarden recently, that appeared as an adult novel in America, and as a children's book
in England. It shows how often. But it goes the other way too, right?
Well, there probably were, you see. It's just a publicly wondrous meeting, how much complexity children enjoy.
I was going to ask you about talking down. Would you imagine that somebody who's been writing books for adults and consciously tries to write them for a child probably does what you're suggesting, which is underage,
in terms of complexity? Yeah, quite so. I would swear to that. I actually invite the students in my course who are third and fourth year students to write stories, if they want to, children stories for their
assignments.
Yeah, I think that the degree of self-consciousness is... Might be
going across.
Yeah, because it's easy to, you know, for an established author to run a sort of fairly high-minded line like C.S. Lewis does, you know, he says, oh, what happens is you want to write a book, you write it, and you find that
it's come out a children's book, you know. I think that's a bit rubbishy, actually, because at least the Narnia books are among the most talking-down books that I know. And I mean, I think they're very good, but they're
also extremely patronizing. The children don't mind it. I carefully
avoided actually drawing any lines because I wouldn't know how to do it myself.
Well, if there are a lot of better questions, I'm really going to end this
here. Thank you for a very interesting talk.
All in all,
I was delighted to see that due to the strain and the work that you've been doing over the program, I just hope that that's the part of the way. Most unfortunately, that's what we would do. Definitely. I'm not sure. A lot.
So I appreciate it, Adelaide. And thank you for your credit. And all the rest of your attention. Unfortunately,
unfortunately, the show must go on and it must remain now contributed to its memory. So, that's what we're going to do. I'm going to play the first thing.
Commonly
experienced by general practitioners in the finance department. Depends on the diet of someone.
But, as a legal researcher, I must find out.
the supernatural vampire, which you must agree has such little creed, it's quite impossible. These are things that myth and legend grossly distorted by, oh yes, first life tonight. Lights, please, spots out. Now,
this is what you might call a traditional vampire. I'm glad to be here. Pennsylvania needs you.
Now focus too. Anyway, there you are. Typical cave. The work for teeth. A definitely nasty piece of work, but unfortunately the facts have been distorted in time. Ah, but the answer's come clearer with you apply a
little medical science to the man. Traditionally, man fires spend very evil lives, commit suicide, or even than they were known to. And right in the day, with an actual fact, medical science proved slightly
otherwise. Vampirin, obviously a disease, transmitted more than a million months of population. In fact, it won't be described as an entire process. The vampire's course of deceit begins with a bit of it. And then
the first symptoms had it off the set. He dies. He's not quite such a man, please. One may ask, why does the man die when, in fact, he apparently rose from the dead beginning? Now, it's as simple as he doesn't die. Now, it's
your fact that for disease, obviously the metabolic process is quite severely. He tends to go into a comatose state, a deep comatose state, sufficient to be called to surrender animation. The Russians prefer to call
such a state anabiosis, virtually without life in the Greek. Other terms are hyperbiosis or unlife. And the one I prefer is cryptobiosis, signal life. Because in fact, while apparently dead, it's alive. Now, the
person in the cryptobiosis state, what does one do with it? So you put it on the turn, or a crypt, or in the grave. Now, the second symptoms have their onset. Basically, the Cumberdough State is not a permanent one. The
person thinks the way back. Now,
if a person wakes up from apparently a dead state and they've been buried, they're not going to get very far. Unless of course, as the one who lived, they come from the upper strata of society, where in fact they're not
buried in the ground, but buried in tombs or crypts. They find the buried and they get out of here. So much with blue blood. Now, the other interesting features of this disease is it's not a simple disease. One would say
it's like radiation, as it obviously is. We're going to see the central nervous system side effects. Psychotic mania.
This is not quite a traditional vampire, but, you know, it's quite a certain group. You have psychosis coming from the effects on the nervous system. The other mechanism is by a rabdo type virus. which pursues the
cause, very well pursuant to it. It moves into the liver and attacks one of the RNA or DNA cofactors. Preferably the liver because none of that goes by chemical in the liver. You can say anything about it. So you have
these two diseases that work in concert that produce a single coherent system of symptoms.
Now, a lot of the side effects of anything is, well, obviously the central nervous effects are quite severe. Traditionally, vampires are quelled by the power of the cross. Obviously, monsters. But, if you think
about it, a devil's central nervous system is bound to, what do you think? So, you would get things like intense morbid phobias of religious symbols. So, fear of the cross. Possibly also fear of consecrated ground.
Are we waiting for this? Additionally, as for things like running water, obviously a bit. Once, of course, they're disorientated so severely they can't swim. Other side effects are quite interesting. The vampire,
because he spends so much time in a crypto-biotics state, has his life span extended quite considerably. So in fact, you get the apparent longevity of the vampire. And
the other interesting effects is that the vampire is produced, is brought into the state of actual hysterical strength. Hysterical strength is one of the most curious cases where the attainment of mouse-wives who
involved in the color accident and had a child trapped underneath the smarged car are quite capable of picking up and moving a car. It usually weighs about a tonne. Normally they end up with a lot of problems before it's
ended up with butts. These creatures live in a state of perpetual hysterical strength. Their metabolic states are greatly enhanced, so they're much more biologically efficient. And being much more biologically
efficient, they become very difficult to kill. The mere simple wounds they've been killed. Ordinary people are effectual. It takes very massive wounds to destroy the environment. Therefore, decapitation is
staking the heart. Because the disease is so pernicious, viruses will last for a long time, the only way to get rid of a vampire is to consume the power of that fire. The poor peasant vampires are presumably quite
contained in very, you know, the second and the third side please. This tends to ram the point over a little too hard, I think. It does produce the effect of massive wounding. Um, what do you about the focus on that
something? I'm using
your hand now. Oh yes, that's good. Van Prism we can now see just simply. Oh yes, the others is interesting, but there are three theories about why they're going to pop up. One is the co-pact of fear which I mentioned.
which is very nice because it explains why one is taking the oil, taking it for the matter. The situation is that what happens when blood is in the stomach is different because there's so many enzymes that act as an axis
and the blood is simply congealed. So why do they leave blood? The co-fact is a simple molecule easily taken in The other one is the hemolytic fear. This one assumes that the blood can be cut in out of the hemolytic canal,
which is injected all over it. The third one is super psychological again. Blood has got so many coronations in life. The person who finds that he periodically dies, he obviously needs more life. So how do we go out and
draw blood? The adaptions of being a vampire are quite severe. Many people can't stand this training. The ones in the base of that could survive longer. Also, a simple adaption to survive. This is the director,
regional anti-vampire control. We're not law enforcement activities. Attack and destroy the vampire now.
So
much
for psychology.
Where's our restaurant?
Strike, but remember, only a massively destructive ruin can destroy a man. Stay and live. Watch out for the demonic
strength
of the man.
Right, next slide, please.
This is where we really
go off the ground. Next slide, please. This is moving up the date. Next slide. Protections and things to come. Obviously, the human future lies in space. This is a viewing next slide, please.
Yes, moving right
along, hollow type module. Next
please. You've got to bang through all these clothes quickly. Just keep banging away. Oh, I love that. Ah, the good old moon. A nice dead wall. Brutal activity going on. A few odd things about it, though. But for the mass
cons, isn't it? A nice wall. A little different. Change of scenery. Continue working. Ah, this is what we hope to be doing. Well, if you'd like to try it. Continue.
Now, this is moving out a little further. It's a new real estate. I think it's a cool production. Not as far as project demos, of course. American stuff, NASA. A couple of loads of Mars. Please continue. Same again,
going down. Actually, that's a Viking. I think
I'm on a machine, I think.
abstract out as bones or not. This of course is Phobos, the moon, planets Mars. Interesting planet, very low pressure, lots and lots of dust, a lot of the weather is controlled by energy getting into that dust. Quite
interesting stuff. That's why it rises, absorbs heat energy, jumps about the place. Continue.
A blank. Any old common old garden asteroid being visited by earthlings. Continue.
Ah, yes. Venus. Very, very good if we'd done this one. Not quite as it would look, but, uh, optically that is. Uh, this would probably be completely blacked out. Um, one more thing, pointy thing, like, finger.
Lightning would do it. If you assume this was taken in infrared, this has got a surface temperature around one moment. About 700 degrees cold, and that'd be about 450 degrees, say, uh, centigrade. Quite warm.
Atmospheric pressure, how to guess, is about 60 atmospheres. A lot of difficulties. A yank classified this, we classified it as pyrolysis, which means hot and deep. Always hot and deep. That must be like plastic or
interesting stuff, optically being quite wild. Because of any light that we've been through quite some peculiar rain was in fact, uh, important you're going to see, but if you imagine a surface of a spear like a ball
and a light ray coming down, instead of going straight down to the surface as would a normal light ray in an atmosphere like ours, it would be quite severely instead of landing at the point where it came straight in at, it
would land somewhere on the other side, sort of to a view point, except it wouldn't make it. Go out and then that is the side. If anything, we're living in a planet like that, I'd have to use a sonar type system, as would
things like Dolphin Oceanic, which is, continue please.
That one's going to come first, that's Venus all the way, please continue. Jump it up, continue. This is how the solar system sat in, this one came out beautifully. How's focus going on the menu? Yeah, it is, isn't it?
Okay, time on. Stacked down again, on Titan, setting off seismic charges. Absolutely beautiful. Here we come from on my projection, not to worry. I sat down again, that looked better. Nice stuff. Good to know.
Seventh planet of the solar system. This planet has had a bad deal from science fiction. There are no great science fiction stories throughout Uranus. Continue. Neptune's had a better deal. It's mentioned in a
couple. Actually, that's why Uranus is a better deal. It's got about five moons. I've all got beautiful Latin names. Whereas Neptune's got two tritons and a myriad. Continue. This is where we get out into the world.
Uh, so to speak. Fact. Stars continue with you. Just hammer away. This is where science fiction is going to go. Oh, no. Uh, some of these are quite... That is North America, would you believe? No. It is. I shall
demonstrate if I had a long pointy thing, which I don't. Oh, you... What do you believe is the Gulf of Mexico, if you could say so? No, I don't. Downes are everywhere, but not so worried. Continue, please. Some of these
are incredibly beautiful. The focus is, that's the horse head nebula. A horse head. Continue. Andromeda, of course. Anyone can recognize the andromeda glance. It's only one and a half million light years away. So
it's a long walk. This is called the dumbbell nebula in Volpeka. Dumb bells. Continue. That is the crap they've gone. Absolutely swishable piece of work. It keeps a lot of boffins busy because it's got all sorts of nice
things going on in there. Lots of hot gas. A pulsar in there which is probably a neutron star. I haven't written an essay on it earlier this year, I should know. These are stars, except that we've got square things.
Continue. Another galaxy. Very sweet. Continue. I
would say Smudgey Starfleet. That'd be... That's a Nebula. Nebula's gas. Gasiest bodies filled with... This is called the Rosetta Nebula in Manosaurus. It's an absolutely beautiful figure. It was in focus. It's
really small. Continue, please. Uh, not a typical nebula, as you might find anywhere in the universe. Ah, oh, whatever. Now this, this is the plight of the seven sisters, which if you get a clear enough night you can see
twenty-one. These are blue stars, they're quite hot, they've only got a life expectancy of mere few million years, so they'll blow out beautifully in the night quite soon. If you hang around long enough you'll see
them go. Right, that's also incredibly beautiful in focus. Another typical galaxy, galaxies are quite interesting. It looks very much like you'd have in life anywhere in in the universe, you have to have galaxies.
So if you move to another universe somewhere, and it hasn't got galaxies, your chance of finding any life there are pretty miserable. Especially intelligent life. There's a beautiful paper, a scientific paper,
mind you. It's quite technical. It proves that the universe is like what we see because we happen to be here. Because we live in a universe that's got galaxies, and it's isotopically distributed. It means that it
happens to be intelligently in such a universe who can look out and say, huh, why are we here? And the answer is because we're in a universe that's us, traumically distributed, and it's got galaxies. That's the answer,
kids. And I published a paper out of it, too. Bloody. Anyway, continue, please. This is a nice quick trip. Oh, right. I mean, yes. That's something which I can't remember. Timmy Slott. Continue, please. Ah, now we're
really ruining the fight alone. This is a man going on a long slay trip. Would you believe it? Continue. He's got some men. Actually, this is, I think, literally. It's one of the interesting ones. A blue-white dwarf
star and a large red giant. No theoretical reason to not wash your system light. Very funny. That one is either zeta-alguri or zeta-canstripe. It's alguri, remember? Continue. This is a squish. This is a
hypothetical planet that is around a star that has gone nova. and in fact the bright bit is the number and the black chamber red stuff is the planetary nebula formant. This planet would be hypothetically about the
position of our planet Pluto in our solar system. Continue. Now this, of course, is beta-wire relying on its side. These slides were dropped earlier in the evening, and the great changes are going to be missing, and
it's been a bit difficult putting them all together again in a hurry. Beta-wire is a nice binary star. It's sufficiently close for there to be an exchange of gases. between the two stars, and because this tends to spin
out, you have to spin because they're turning on one another, and you get this spiral coming out. It must be a really fabulous sight. Pity is, present theory says there's not much chance of them being planets, but then
again, we might not take the present theories yet. Continue.
Now this is zeta cancerite. Obviously, a rather miserable place. Continue.
Ah, that's where they went. That's Mercury lying on the side. That is a Mercury mountain. That is a solar sun. And that is a Mercury plane. Continue. Ah, yes. Now this one is interesting because this is one of your common
organic hypothetical planets going around for Centauri. This one is a real pity about the focus because, very fascinatingly enough, there is a constellation up here, that constellation, which we see in our skies
and call Cassiopeia. In fact, On the planet going around Alpha Centauri, the stars will be very much as we see them, in the constellations. Except in this case, there is a seventh star. It's our sun. People suggested
that this constellation, as seen from the Centauri planets, should be called the switchblade. Actually, Stephen Dole called that. Let's check away, if you want to call that. Probably the Vicious America, which he
is. The Vicious Barclay is America. Continue. It gets even groovy as we go along. Yes. Here is one of your common old guys. Planets with intelligent life. It's not one of ours. Because a Brit painted this damn thing,
you've got a Jottelbank type telescope, and you have an alien spacecraft taking off. Actually, there's an alien city and things down here, too. Ha-ha, of course. A PMG tower, GPO type tower, London. Hmm. How much
imaginations are we going? Continue. Ah, now we can get on extra-terrestrial life. That is a sort of primordial depiction of extra-terrestrial life. Didn't you, man, the suspects look beautiful. Ah, that looks
almost too focused. That is like a galaxy as seen from a planet. Don't run a star along with Hulk from the galaxy, as one can guess. You have your great, ruddy, great galaxy here, and these things here are the other stars.
Perhaps one would say a globular cluster moving outside the galaxy. Of course, there's a pretty high velocity start. This means they travel a couple hundred kilometers per second that are moving out of the galaxy, so
they might have moved out and evolved life. Continue. Now, this is getting really aiding and aiding in life. This is a planet where there's great masses of carbon tetrachloride. That's a glob of carbon tetrachloride
going up, or an alien. There's more gobs of carbon tetrachloride than an alien. A moon on some description. And, of course, obviously, as you've all guessed by now, this is a star inside probably a glob, a globular
cluster, like that. Inside globular clusters, stars are sufficiently close to you within white months of one another. which means that if there are any civilizations out there, they would have a great chance to get
around and form galactic empires. Because it would be quite easy to build interstellar space systems that can get out there. It will start as only a few light months away as opposed to light years. The only trouble is,
the good guesses are, bombular clusters are old, which means they didn't have the heavy elements that we've got. That's to say, elements heavy in iron, uranium, cobalt, nickel. They probably couldn't form a machine
civilization since we could. But they might struggle along with plastics and there is a lot of things you can do with biology. You can put rockers to go on. Yes, I would. If you can guess this one, you're good biologists.
They'll go off with not so much a bang, but a... other musiating sound. Continue. Ah, yes. More extraterrestrial life. I guess. The next one, please. Oh, wrong one. These are typical pieces of extraterrestrial life.
One of your typical Niven puppeteers. The properties are quite interesting. I thought they seemed to be quite acceptable form of alien life, except there are some nasty things about them from a biological point of
view. I mean, apart from the fact that you've got these eyes on the end of these arms. The idea of a mouth as an organ manipulation is very good. I must grant the difference showing the incredible, the good originality in
doing that. The three legs are a real foul up though. There are other problems involved. Basically, reproduction. Niven is very coy about the reproduction of puppeteers. And if you try to work out how they do it, it's
no wonder he's so coy about it. He implies that they are females of the species of a non-sentient. Actually, I wonder about Larry Niven because they're chisindy. or zinty as one might say. Presumably it's supposed to
pronounce the K but unfortunately because he used a letter like K which is silenced in a lot of uses, I tend to suppress his K. So I say zinty. Actually there is a CZ sound in some of the European languages which would be
pronounced Cha, which would be pronounced Chinty, or if you accent Dutch and pull a ka, it becomes Kinty. So much for Larry Niven. We're going to rip some great chunks out of him later on. But anyway, as I said, oh yes,
non-sentient. Because obviously the brain must get in the way if you've got to have a womb in there somewhere, so they've got to be non-sentient. Anyway, non-sentient female sex, that sounds suspicious to me.
Obviously a hang-up somewhere. Continue. This is where they go off. Crazy cells, folks. Get out of the way, will you? Next slide, please. You're kidding, of course. Now I'm singing the song. This to give you some
irritation is a mammal. You're, of course, sniggering it for the wrong reasons, because, biologically speaking, mammals I'm all equipped with these. Well, gentlemen, try to look down there best and check on them.
In actual fact, mammals aren't mammals, not because they've got boobs, but because they've got hair. See? We can't see that slide. Now, interestingly
enough, there's no biological reason why you couldn't have a species. In fact, when the males didn't have mammary glands, And in fact, looking at what happens at the pre-cellular level, where you can, in fact, do some
interesting evolutionary experimental work on raw biochemical, which has been done, I mean, this is the first time you're going to hear it, folks. I mean, you know, John Poitzner said last night on television that
science fiction was only 30 years behind science, behind everything you catch up. One could have memory miles. Continue, please. Thanks for the memory. This is one of your other biologically interesting things.
The ancients in their way tended to mug up these creatures. Like, do you want antroops, so to say, all antroops? In other words, a bird man. A man with wings who flies. Very unsound. unstable. But we also do a sort of thing
to, ah yes, spin your birds. It was once pointed out to me that in the Edgar Wright horror story, the Martians must all be reptiles when they were reproduced by eggs. Therefore, there's no need for the birds to have
boobs. So, all those busty birds, boop, boop, boop, boop, boop, boop, boop. In fact, they're a fake. Oh, my God. Edgar Rice borrows his imagination and is working overtime for the wrong reasons.
Continue. Now, this is beautiful. Now, everyone knows that science fiction writes his own science fiction. What they don't realise is that science writes his own science fiction too. Now, this is what one would call
a communal garden. This is your Photon rocket work on a simple principle that you have a really great type of light down here somewhere and you square out lots of light and it moves forward in the opposite direction. A
typically spot by there. Next slide please. A technical diagram on Aepoponics, which the numbers haven't come out yet. Now this... Ooh, bloody hell.
This is a reflective dish. Engines... Oh, bugger us. There's a little shuttle rocket. Life support unit up there somewhere, and a long thin thing for supporting it all. Now the photo on rocket is a nice idea. Anyone can
look at the calculations and they can show you that a photo on rocket will get very close to the velocity while therefore it won't take advantage of all the little ballistic effects like time dilation. The fact that the
rocket gets shorter, actually that's why. Because it means you can invent problems for physics students which say, how can you get a parachute through a pair of barn doors? It doesn't boom that fast enough. And it
shrinks down and it hits through the barn doors. You must admit, there's some beautiful realistic problems. There's one published in the Australian in which some guy worked out as follows. Cinderella goes to the
ball on the far side, which of course is only a wide hour away from Europe. Midnight she's got to leave the ball so she takes off fast. In a non-accelerating graphic, acceleration cars can't go in. that troubles back to
Europe. Now the thing that does seem to have made it back in time before the witching hour on Earth, her time, I'm going to say, was she turned into a pumpkin? First, she turned into a pumpkin. Second, one she had to
squintle. Sinners were much better as a pumpkin. Next slide. Oh, no. Right. This is an absolutely beautiful slide, which is on a photon rocket that has come to has arrived in a pantry system that is a mere thirty-one
years away from the Trippin nebula, which has always colored stuff down here. An absolutely beautiful piece of nebula, it's an absolutely beautiful piece of work. I'll give a plug for the books that came from too.
Continue, please. I'm chatting about that. Ha-ha-ha! Put it right there. This is good stuff.
Right. A common organ, born to King Arthur style. What does one do? Naturally, one turns the exorcist. Nothing to worry about. Science has taken a hand. Well, naturally we just wrote a copy, part of a copy of course, of
an article from Physics Fortan, 1972. I think you're not, this is for real.
It can be quite easy to find out because it has got very well known property. Praying the contract through wall sticker and four inches of the lock once. It comes to this thing called quantum mechanics. And we can do a lot
of things with quantum mechanics, but we'll see it in a little bit, too. Yes. OK, you have this. Anyway, here you're going to learn, you know, that quantum geometry idea is a wave mechanics. This established system,
that's to say, it's going to go through walls bigger than 4 inches, or 0.1 meter. That's where his object, whose associated wave function was decreased to about 1. 2.7 got their full altitude at about one, about a tenth
of a meter from the mound. And this establishes them quite easily, because you work out what the mass of a ghost is. And if it goes up to the bottom... about 10 to the minus 16 for neutrons. And that's about a mass of about 10
to the minus 40 kilograms. They're quite light. Now, first of all, this, what happens? Any ghost can come down a dead body as they want to do. It's quite easily accelerated. In fact, the energy to accelerate a ghost to
escape from it, If only we could change the moment's 38 jewels. In fact, any part of brief will accelerate a ghost, clean off the earth. In fact, even the sunlight will squeeze a ghost off the earth. So the only ghost
we'll add to it are in fact a ghost that's trapped inside an old building, dungeon, gets down to speed, or get caught up in chains. And they're stuffed! Now, ghosts trapped in this unfortunate man are forced to remain,
because after they've been brought up, they've all come out from Austin. They soon kind of rose to a steep rate. And then Max's increase. Max's going to get out. He's going back. So in fact, if you want to lay a goat on
Max's side, what you're going to do is calm it down. It's not like it wasn't in an armored race. You're going to sit there and you're going to think about the car and Max will go in. You need to watch out for him. There's some
nice side effects in this, which I can't go all that too unfortunately. But in actual fact, you all know what Peter Dunn said about Red Room Ghosts. In fact, this out here does it quite nicely. Because ghosts are
wandering around the place, oh yeah, you get all sorts of interesting effects about the real inflection of visions of the surface of ghosts. It must be less than any percent or it might never be seen at all. and said,
''Gus, can only be seen by poor illumination. You should be trying to plot that. I'm going to push you to get to the wall.'' I said, ''Go to the wall.'' I said, ''Go to the wall.'' I said, ''Go to the wall.'' I said, ''Go to
the wall.'' I said, ''Go to the wall.'' I said, ''Go to the wall.'' The other little thing is about them is that they give you scatter radiation. And because, obviously, the parking is a great void out there, you have to
see the fact that the scattering of shot by radiation by ghosts and flies to the universe with, well, therefore, a major source of cosmic radio noise. Attempts made so far were as strong as to explain this, and
unfortunately, if they did too little account of the contribution...
Also, obviously, the absolute temperature of our space is about 3 degrees celsius at stand fault, and 3 is mostly except 20 degrees. It's possible the reason ghosts are cold, because if something returns to them,
it's very close. Obviously, the door is great. It's true. If this is going to be a certain thing, that was the ghost that actually pulled up the large, you know, velocity moment. Is that down to the energy in a couple of
holes? Yes, it's rather like that thing. That record goes up to say that the ghost only walks. When it's not over here, that's in England, and when it's down here in Australia. That's got a fantastic timing, I tell you.
But even so, ghosts, I guess there's some really, there's some really gassed up there. Because of their properties, it's possible that some might have certain figures. In other words, there are six differences in my
mind. Imagine. Would you even be ghosts? It's okay. And this would be the asymmetric wave functions characterized by semi-guides for physics. Molecules are various and this is what happens in school. And the
element of space would be one in which ghosts of opposite spin would be paired up to occupy the energy state of the moment, each carrying one state. This is a highly satisfactory disposition. Why do you have a
physicist? Now, I think we've got to go on. This is a sort of wearing moment. What's next on the paper? Ah yes, there's more slides. I think it's more interesting to go along. Ah yes! This is going to be about the
extraterrestrial stage, we're going to extraterrestrial technology. The stuff which you can build if you've got the brains to build them in time to do it in. Ah yes. This would be a typical monolith in orbit over a
moon. I know it's dirty digits they are but not to worry
about. I wouldn't talk too much. Now, Niven's ring, of course, was a beautiful thing. I mean, it makes lovely paintings of stars. But unfortunately, it's a lousy concept. I mean, okay, how do you build a ring? One
thinks to oneself. One could, you know, actually a lot of tidal effects. Tidal effects are sort of easy to imagine. You just simply take a can of water, whirl it on it with a string, and... Steve, you could let it go rigid.
In fact, a ring like that has to do things like staying rigid. The tidal effects are quite miserable. What do you know together is horrible? Next slide, please.
It's a better idea. Simplicity is always best. Freeman Dyson's original idea was, see Dyson decided to basically sneak in to come think about it. If you want to reason out a problem, you do it in a nice, simple fashion.
And he said, right, if there exists very large technologies in the universe, What are their upper limits? What can they gain? He talked about in terms of mass energy. Simple ideas. So he just simply said, right, let's
take the mass of Jupiter. You can know what the mass of Jupiter is. And you take the output of the energy from the sun. And from those figures, you can work out something like... Dyson's speed. Except he didn't say, aha,
he's got the Dyson's speed. He said, aha, and wrote it up in science and got published. It's fine. Actually Dyson's an interesting bloke, Diagress. He's only got a PhD. In ordinary degree, no honours degree at all, and
he's a proper Princeton. He must be a damn bright bugger. Anyway, to continue with the Dyson route, what he did was he just simply considered if you smeared out all the mass of Jupiter into a thin sphere. A sphere is
wrong, it's actually a thin shell, about two metres thick, which means the man could stand upright and put his feet on one side and bang his head on the other. a funny thing to do. When people wrote in and said, aha, you
build a thing like this around the stone with four parts, because of tidal effects, he said, aha, of course you're right. So what he said is you have a lot of these things floating around the place like this, which is a
ready-built cylinder, no less. And if you say that this cylinder is about a mile in diameter, say 10 miles long, which allows the sensors to go, if you say it's 10 miles long and about 20 miles long, you're probably
better off. A thing like that, you can fill up knowing, you know, it's just diabolically easy, just put it on layers. Now let's see, what is the area of a thing like that? It's obviously about something like 2 pi r by L
long. That's what you'd say it's here to do. Well, let's see, what's that we're going to weigh? It's about 10 miles diameter. It's about 5 miles, that's about... It's 30, if it's about 20 long, 600 square miles of one
level. And if you move the levels in, you admittedly lose your surface area, but you gain a lot. If you thought about spinning an object like this over the outer layer with centrifugal force, which would throw you out
because it's spinning around, you had an internal force of One gravity. As you work in the center, you have lesser gravities. Where you can, in fact, install lots of machinery. Things like park lanes, for example, if
you wanted to build on that side. It would be damned interesting to have a park, you know, like a great open park, like a forest, built artificially, inside a cylinder. Where, in fact, you had conditions of 10
gravities. I mean, marvelous, in fact, technically flying through trees. That's what I've idea of, though. I like it. Continue.
Powerful gunner on the motor. The building had a single... What a man! Yes, it's Superman! A strange figure from another planet who came to work with powers and abilities. A man who came to work with powers and
abilities. A man who came to work with powers and abilities. A man who came to work with powers and abilities. A man who came to work with powers and abilities. A man who came to work with powers and abilities. A man who
came to work with powers and abilities. A man who came to work with powers and abilities. A man who came to work with powers and abilities. A man who came to work with powers and abilities. A man who came to work with powers
and abilities. A man who came to work with powers and abilities. A man who came to work with powers and abilities. A man who came to work with powers and abilities. A man who came to work with powers and abilities. A man who
came to work with powers and abilities. A man who came to work with powers and abilities. A man who came to work with powers and abilities. A man who came to work You can break down exactly
what he
does
and work out how he has to do it.
Right! He can bend the steel bars and he can screw it to anything he wants. He can set them up so he can make full tools in the single band. He can work half of them. He can work half of them. He can work half of them. He can work
half of them. He can work half of them. He can work half of them. He can work half of them. He can work half of them. He can work half of them. He can work half of them. He can work half of them. He can work half of them. He can work
half of them. He can work half of them. He can work half of them. He can work half of them. He can work half of them. He can work half of them. He Now, I said I'd take pictures out of Mary Hill and I will. Mary Hill and I have a very
cool thing about this man. He called it, Mary was a dear woman of cleanliness. Tissue. Tissue, baby. Ah, Tissue, then. That's good. Right. I thought that this was a superman. He was too strong, too powerful. He would
tend to rip a female apart if he was cockulating with it. He would ejaculate at loose transonic velocities and punch holes in it. Superhuman power being more powerful in locomotives would tear away through a delicate
body and leave a preference to sit. But you then undergo I think on that one for a while.
Now, including the fact that the man is stupid and he's a human or a young, he's noticeably human. Okay,
Rose! Give it back! More powerful than a locomotive! Able to leave trial buildings at a single bound. It's Superman! Yes, it's Superman! Strange visitor from another planet who came to Earth with powers and
abilities far beyond those immortal men. Superman, who can change the course of mighty rivers, then steal in his bare hands. And who disguised as Clark Kent, mild-mannered reporter for a great Metropolitan
newspaper, fights a never-ending battle for truth, justice, and the American... Now, when you think you need food, get a phone number and say, oh, the master is cooking, I should be saying that. That's not a master
menu, that's like more. That's like one of those cakes and we never thought we'd want to go to the supermarket. Yes, we want to go to the grocery store. Now we go to the grocery store. Well, those of you who saw the program
Mr. Terrific, this is about a punitive or reticule clay field. And for one hour, you have the strength of a thousand men. Great stuff. Now, if you care to sit down and work out howl, but the relative weight of a man who had
the strength of a thousand men on the ground, you know, the traction down to his planks, He said, well, come around here, there's a thousand times stronger water here. What? Go out and look the way for the sign. You're
working on every way of a man. And you multiply the current stroke by, you divide it by a thousand. And you're going to go out and look the way for the sign. You're working on every way of a man. And you multiply the current
stroke by, you divide it by a thousand. And you're going to go out and look the way for the sign. And you're working on every way of a man. So, give me the answer now. So, Ryan, just give us the basic unit. They work on it. An
empty unit, and this is the terrific unit. One. It's kind of worth a thousand minutes. So, obviously, how about two minutes? So, so, two, three, and two. Obviously, no problem. Now, let's face it, right back to
Blackmore. Blackmore stars. Four of you, I think. That's Blackmore stars. Now, we're thinking it's really a neutron star. A typical neutron star would be to take the mass of the Sun and compress the mass of the Sun to
the Earth. It's about the mass of the Sun. It's pretty massive. Now, what's the mass of the Sun in mid-Earth? Look at both gasmobbies. One of the useful facts about this thing. And it said, Sun, you've got 333,500 times
the mass of the Earth. Therefore, krypton is a word, a neutron plant, that's a saying. A neutron starts to evolve far enough to be like a planet, you know, cool north and quiet and down a bit. There's a planet. We need to be
like a planet, not a star anymore. You've got to set the gravity back to three. Twenty-one hundred and thirty-three thousand and five hundred times the gravity of this whole universe. First light, please. Kill us
once, Mr. Barger.
So take the slide after this one, not
the one before
it.
Yes.
You know what I'm saying, don't you? Superman in Australia. Now in the comic, if I remember the sort of stuff, they never bothered to rationalise how Superman works. Which was neat, as you could sort of say, right? No
way of knowing. The comic should have been cooked on. He's got all these superpowers, and that's it. But they got to work and they said, like, how does he work, you know? I said, Krypton's got a red sun, therefore the
Kryptonians don't have superpowers and things like that. And he's got to be activated by yellow suns, and he's like, it's, you know, it's obviously no suns. I mean, Krypton, like, how does Kryptonite work? It looks
like a radioactive element, but they've no Kryptonite in the universe. I mean, it's mountains, actually. But we shall fly on. But that's my idea. I don't know if I've been up to this. This is a good view of what you can get
at. Right. Their explanation for his suit, we hear most certainly comes from a heavier planet. We established it comes from a planet which we can say has got 300,000 times more gravity. See, it can't be a planet. It's
nonsense. I mean, Jupiter's only got a surface gravity of about, oh, about 4G or something. I mean, you know, four times stronger, you know, great stuff, fast, fast. If that's not bending steel bars in your band, I'd
say, Storm bits of wire, yes, must be there. Right. But sons, obviously monsters, monsters, we'll come to that. Funny things. Yes, right. It's true. If it comes from a planet that's 300,000 times more massive as it
goes, it serves very 300,000 times out of the earth, it has to be stronger. Not only is it going to be stronger, it has to be made tougher. Because otherwise, if you were on crypto, on crypto, it would be flattened. You
know, very thin paste. All over the planet, sir. In fact, you can work out that on a neutron star, if you drop something like a small coin, in fact, it will liberate about as much energy as you have a small nuclear weapon.
But I think that makes certain assumptions, which I haven't had a chance to go into. A paper where he can trip over on Cripple and survive, which means he can survive very powerful explosions and bullets and all sorts of
things. Super speed becomes easy because he falls 300,000 times faster. That means bloody fast reflexes between the entire nervous system is speeded up. In fact, you would think 300,000 times faster than ordinary
men. And if you had a nervous system comparable to ours, you'd be smart because you can think longer and faster. That means if you take an hour to solve a problem and take a human being, 300,000 man hours to think about it.
X-ray vision. This one's almost easy, actually, because the optical tunneling effects of lasers are not looking at X-rays. His eyes are working like lasers. Now, if it's quite possible to think that he lives on a
neutron star, we'll always gather it. Optical effects become quite weird. So it would be quite natural for the inhabitants to develop eyes that would, in fact, be able to project. Well, quite likely, so why not? I mean
it's there physically, I mean the biology must take advantage of it somewhere. And let's see what happens. One of these other superpants flies. Now, flies are a funny thing, but we can get around that quite instantly.
Now, all these big biological systems, creatures like men, animals, and dogs, and zebras and monkeys, this and that, whatever you like to call it. Biological evolution has to go on. It's got to go on in a gravitational
field that is 300,000 times stronger than us. Matter doesn't behave like that unless you invent something rather smart. And so, I invented a k-effect. I told the k-effect because I was too much to call it the jacarice
effect. Anyway,
back to the k-effect. The k-effect is one of the hypothetical effects which means that It stores up lots and lots of energy and it overcomes effects on very strong gravitational fields so that matter can behave as if it
were not in a strong gravitational field. Immediately, the planet can evolve. You can have ordinary biological evolution and by converging evolution you can get humanoids. Kryptonians, in other words. So,
Krypton exploded, bang. Newtron stars, we don't know what exploded, they exploded. We might get the occasional odd, straight, interesting elements, like kryptonite with a K effect. Now, with the K effect, we have a
lot of interesting things to consider. Now this means that Superman has got stored up in himself and all four of his energy. And this energy can be used quite simply. It means, in fact, that by him to survive on the Earth,
I mean he can... I mean, the point of fact, an ordinary man can leap quite readily into the Earth at a velocity of 1 meter per second. He would leap into the Earth at a velocity of about 300 kilometers per second. Actually,
it's 333. But this means it's about 30 times faster than he expected us to live the Earth. Which means he could hop around the pantry system quite happily. Which means he can really travel, but he's not really moving
yet. With a K-field, he could do all the interesting stuff. A K-field would be a perfect safe gap for whatever he does. Now, the K-field, on the other hand, must be a response modulated. Which means that whenever it runs
up in use, it modulates to overcome. which means that in fact, he doesn't rip doors off a panel unless he needs to. It's when he leans on things, the response comes back for them to be rather human. This means he is
virtually perfectly elastic. Elastic in the true physical sense. A claimant goes back to its original shape. Plastic means you take something you need to form it and it remains conformed. Whereas elastic means that
if it's in a certain state shape, and you bash it, bang it, or jump on it, it returns to that original state. Perfectly elastic. It's invulnerable. Right, so we've got an invulnerable map. In fact, he can be just merely
invulnerable on the view that he has super strength. Because, you know, if you fix a car, it's up there. And the car is saying, ah, you should be crushed to death. But the old cave effect is working way same. Right. We keep
pumping in the energy and keeping him in the same state. He would appear to be super strong. Because, in fact, all it's doing is he remains in the same state. The car can't fall because it gets in the way. And the cave field
keeps pumping in the energy and keep him in the same state. Uninterested speculation. Yes. Now, once we've got the kaiting effect there, the kaiting, well, one, the effect so we associate a field with it and get away
with explaining it. There's actually a thing called whatless power, which one finds about. Whatless power is interesting. It means you can pump energy in your system and the whatless power doesn't do anything. It
just sort of vanishes. But you can take it out again as though it's there. So in fact the k-effect works like what was power. People are not setting the signs for what was power, which I won't go into, because they tend to
get rather confusing. But effectively, with a k-field, and the socio-k-effect, you can do most of the things. But obviously k-fields must have other side effects. And this is where kryptonite comes in. It's
obviously affected by radiation. Now, when it comes in contact with kryptonite radiation, it obviously does something that is K-field. It obviously draws energy back in the wrong direction. What do you do? Aha!
We're getting somewhere. Very kryptonite. Probably something to start with. Radiation obviously interferes with something. Now, a K-field must store information. It must also, right? Superman is so big, so
tall, so such is actually right. Now this radiation seeps in and it mucks up the information. So the right superman is 264. He's got two numbers. Bang! He's in trouble again. Right, that's very good to know. That's the
other stuff I'm not going to bother about that. But you get the tip of the idea. Maybe an activation effect by stellar spectra. Red suns were stark. Red suns are interesting. As far as I figure out, E.C. don't have a red
sun. And it inhibited the K effect, as one might imagine. All the plutonics would cure that. So obviously, the effect of a red sun must jam the spectral, must jam the level of the K thing. So in fact, the superman would
really fly in the past. a great sun. It's kind of filled with jam at that level for a while, I guess. So, in fact, you couldn't really even fly around. And if you were up in the earth in a jam, ah, yeah. Yeah, don't cook the
night's easy. It just simply jabs the input and output of energy. He's stuck. No superpowers in this. Go on. No worries, permanently jammed. Poisoning effects, right. Very awesome there. Okay, question for you.
What have I left out? Brain. I'm Eugene Gray. Why? Why? Why the dope? I know. Destroy his plans. Destroy his plans. Destroy his plans. Destroy his plans. Destroy his plans. Destroy his plans. Destroy his plans.
Destroy his plans. Destroy his plans. Destroy his plans. Destroy his plans. Destroy his plans. Destroy his plans. Destroy his plans. Destroy his plans. Destroy his plans. Destroy his plans. Destroy his plans.
Destroy his plans. It was easy. He would normally suffocate, except the cannibal would continue to restore for a living to stay. He doesn't need to breathe. In other words, he's dying all the time. That's right, he's
dying all the time. He's in bed, isn't he? Actually, I've taken all these speculations purely in terms of a nuclear plant. The normal speculation is, in fact, neutron... See, talking with neutron planets, there's
nothing to know about them. They don't explode. But there is one bloody astronomical objective. We haven't seen, we think it's there, or was there, that did explode. None of the big bang. If Krypton were the big
bangers, he might explain how all his superpowers very quickly. It would also imply, in effect, that as mass goes, he's got the mass of a galaxy stored away inside him, which is in the form of energy. It's no wonder he's
so bloody indestructible. You can't get enough energy up to a nuclear rungly fixin'. Oh yeah, interesting effect from nuclear physics. Boundaries. You have a potential barrier, or actually a potential well, which
has got so much potential. If anything, it's very important. I mean, you know, it's like saying, you've got this incredibly deep well, and you walk up to the well, and you've topped something into it, and it just fall
away, right? You know, it's like on top of a cliff. So it's like, you know, when it goes out, it's simple. Except, in nuclear conditions, you get potential wells, and in fact, they're so deep, they, in fact, you can't
throw things into them, because they look black from them. So in fact, if he's got some of the energy stored into it, he'll reflect matter to our world there. This is one of the reasons we actually modulate it.
Otherwise, if he takes a step, he pushes the weight of the floor underneath it, things like that, and he can just keep going to go structure here. He has to be modulated. Ah, yes, he's modulated, of course. This means
that he's maxed. Because he's modulated, he's making the changes of the structure he's causing, not the structure he wants, he can quite easily make himself sport, make with human beings. What do we do?
Why? Why? I don't
know. When
he flies past the planet, he's got a red sun. He usually drops to the planet. He doesn't keep flying, like he said. Right, sir. How can I have a DC-colored stuff like that? What probability would you say would exist on a
planet like this? I could technically, 353,000. I don't have on a Earth planet this is the planet. Right. So if I know those people who have been at the Sydney candle in a bottle, we'll have a lot of trouble. Not just that,
but there's some from a visitor who's been through the time there. Ah, why couldn't you? You might be. Do you see that, though? That's why. Not as Jim Harris, let's be fair. You're a complete seeker. You've got giants,
haven't you? Actually,
we've turned the slides. They're some interesting stuff. Quick backwards, actually. I'm going forward. Okay, superman typically writing a change of kryptonite. I'll go through them until he gets real easy. There
should be three more after that, actually.
Well, this won't show Superman doing that. Actually, this is incredible. A man who can do everything. Why doesn't he take over the world? I mean, there's nothing there. That's probably why. Because
he's a kryptonian, he's a kryptonian to a bloke. Yeah, actually psychologically, the man would be incredibly interesting. I mean, everyone says, you know, right, you can do everything, but you know, where's the
challenge? He's willing to help creatures which are, in fact, pathetically weak by his standards and incredibly moronic.
Psychologies, but continue to this life. Now we get to the funny one I do. This is a funny one I took in three parts. That's the first one. It actually is the second one. That's the one with the bloody slides. Show us the
next one. That is the first slide. Show us the second one. That's the second one. That's the third one.
The last one, I think I could say off, we're going to go into the last round. Well, through them. They're quite fascinating stuff. The focus is off. Oh, yes, folks. I just had a time count. For those of you who attend the
bank at 8 o'clock, you're going to attend it at least half an hour later.
We're sort of empirical type science, you know, sort of stuff you can work out if you look up the physics and the chemistry and the biology and you want to bat your brains out about it. But this kind of stuff, in fact, is
what Let's try the Swab, though. They're all rather Swab, actually. This is what you can do if you just use your imagination. What Brian always calls a runcible science vector, as opposed to the empirical, which is
more hard-line, rationalistic, and logical. Which, of course, has got a lot of blur due, but it's damn hard work. Continue. This stuff, of course, requires a lot more imagination. Now, let's go back and think, you
know. Bishop Godwin's thing, very pretty, it's a weird idea. Quite squadrons of swans. Pegasus in a, well, a boxy version. But to continue.
Pretty about that one. It's quite a nice start, but... And includes... I, um, oh well, let's go along. You're right. That is a flying elephant, of course. Flying elephant. Continue. Yes, it is, actually. That one is a
flying elephant. I'm ready to fly an elephant. About to swoop, actually. Continue. That one is upside down, but it probably doesn't matter with that one. Uh, continue.
That one is very pretty. Continue.
Haha, yes, an old friend
of mine.
Another battle scene. A kind of armored turidactyl, a few armored armadillos, nasty growlings in a grovy nest, and armored armadillos.
Much more like things rearing out of the ground like fish resting on top of one of them, obviously. Yeah. And these are mushroom type things floating in space, which is absolutely fantastic. That slide which enter is
really stuffed up. It's pretty about that because they are very nice slides. Is that the last one? Well, there's that other little group. Oh, that little group. Yes, there's one. Yes, go ahead. Very well. It's
actually a map of the galaxy out of diameter of about 10,000 light-years. It lists the major astronomical objects within that sphere. Send it on our sun. Continue. He leaves you out of focus. Ah, damn. That is a Dr. Hoot
as William Huttville. William Hart will stop the video.
That's John Pertwee at a TARDIS console, modern version. Hi, darling. What's up? Hi, mate. Next one, please. Hi, I'm Irving. Come on, darling. Oh, you don't have money. Yeah. Oh, I'd like to again. That's Patrick
Trout from Doctor Who. This is a follow-up on Doctor Who. And that's John Fertwee being surprised by something. I doubt that Alex's saying he's surprised, but that's it for us.
The following knowledge meets after this. This presentation would have been impossible. The Adventure Subcommittee, Dr. J. R. Patterson, University of Adelaide Physics Department, the State Library of South
Australia, Rod Hannah, Paul Stokes, Joy Window, and Tinaka Kempen.
Well, the
first item on today's program is this deluxe edition of Skull Comics. Any offers? Ten cents. Twenty.
Twenty.
Showing pictures. 40 cents. 40
cents,
do I hear anything more? No, 40 cents. Right.
Young
lust. Don't be filthy. How much am I offered? 20 cents. 25. 30.
40. 45.
Yes, 45 cents, do I hear anything more? Never. Good, sold to the man over there for 45.
Did he? What's your number, Bill? Oh. What's your number, Bill? Number six. Number six, oh, good. Get rid of that. Right, how much have I bid for this Kona, number six? Mine is 100 dollars. 15. 20. 25. 35. 45.
Soul. Now
we have a Conan number 7. How much have I bid for this? 20 cents over here. 25. Thirty up there. Thirty-five. Thirty-five. Thirty-five. Thirty-five. Thirty-five. Thirty-five. Thirty-five. Thirty-five.
Thirty-five. Thirty-five. Thirty-five. Thirty-five. Thirty-five. Thirty-five. Thirty-five. Thirty-five. Thirty-five. Thirty-five. Thirty-five. Thirty-five. Thirty-five. Thirty-five. Thirty-five.
Thirty-five. Thirty-five. Do I even have you a rear item? A collection of new worlds. Numbers 18, 19, 21, 22, 30, 175, 176. Well, certainly
the small ones first. Numbers 18, 19, 21, 22 and 30. 20 cents each. 40 cents each. 40 cents each. 40 cents each. 40 cents each. 40 cents each. 40 cents each. 40 cents each. 40 cents each. 40 cents each. 40 cents each. 40
cents each. 40 cents each. 40 cents each. 40 cents each. 40 cents each. 40 cents each. 40 cents each. 40 cents each. 40 cents each. 40 cents each. 40 cents each. 40 cents each. 40 cents each. 40 cents each. 40 cents each. 40
cents each. 40 cents each. 40 cents each. 40 cents each. 40 cents each. 40 cents each. 40 cents each. 40 cents each. 40 cents each. 40 cents each. 40 cents each. 40 cents each. I think
it's 50 cents. Sorry. We were opting as a set. We were opting as a set. It's broken up now. Twenty. Twenty. Twenty. Twenty.
Twenty. Twenty. Twenty. Twenty. Twenty. Twenty. Twenty. Twenty. Twenty. Twenty. Twenty. Twenty. Twenty. Twenty. Twenty.
Twenty. Twenty. Twenty. Twenty. Twenty. Twenty. Twenty. No, we have some large new worlds. Together? Together. Number's 175, 176, 177, 178. 179. What's the number? 186.
Our pool. One dollar.
Two dollars.
Three days. Each. Three days. Three days. Three days. Three days.
Three days. Three days.
You've got four dollars. Four dollars. An advance on four.
All right.
two large poor man owned logs August 1964 November 1963.
Separately. I asked if there was a minute. $1 for the first one. That one? Yes. Do I hear any advance on a dollar? $1.50. Anymore? Sold for $1.50.
$1.00. August 1964. $1.00. It's $1.00. Not in really good nick. There's an increase going on a dollar. Go under the dollar. To give it a second.
As a
set, Authentic
Science Fiction Monthly, number 78, 79, 80 and 83.
$1.50, any more? $2.00. $2.00.
$2.00, 16
adventures. Allah. Who's are they? 9. Is this him? Yeah, I know. Volume 1, number 6, volume 2, number 7, volume 8, volume 2, number 8, volume 2, number 9, volume 2, number 11, volume 3, number 13, volume 3, number 16,
volume 4, number 24, and volume 5, number 25.
There's
a lot of stories in there. A couple of old stories. Shadow of the sword. Hey, there's a late-nighting
story in that one. The first appearance of the fellow out of the world. That should buy Lee Harding. Lee Harding's story. $3.00. $3.00. $3.00. $3.00. $3.00. $3.00.
Oh, here we come to an interesting collection of fanzines.
Boys own fanzine. Number one, March, 1971. $50.
That's
why they
don't send you copies.
Second
item, speculation, volume 2, number 11, July, 1969. 50 cents. 60 cents.
75.
75 cents. Do I hear in advance on 75 cents? What number?
I don't know. 52 or something. That's
the front. That's the front. 20 cents. Any advance on 20 cents? First issue.
That's an interesting one.
Fifty cents. What number is it? 50
cents, do I hear any advance on 50 cents? What is it? It's a book, you nit. 50 cents, three times. It's all for 50 cents. Aha, here's another one. Number 10 this time. 50 cents. 50 cents. Sixty. Seventy-five.
Seventy-five. Seventy-five cents. Seventy-five. Seventy-five. Seventy-five. Seventy-five. Seventy-five. Seventy-five. Seventy-five. Seventy-five. Seventy-five. Seventy-five. Seventy-five.
Seventy-five. Seventy-five. Seventy-five. Seventy-five. Seventy-five. Seventy-five. Seventy-five.
Seventy-five. Seventy-five. Seventy-five. Science fiction review number 41. 50 cents. 70 cents.
Busy push. Sold for 77. 50 cents
for that one. Insini five. It's a double, two insini number five and number four. 20 cents. Dollar.
Any advance on a dollar?
Sold for a dollar. I did twice. Oh, a science victim review number 41. There's two in this section. 50 cents. 60. 75.
Sold for 75. Oh, it's fantastic. Winter, 1971. 50 cents. 60 cents. 70 cents. 80.
Go, go, go. Any advantage on 80 cents? Sold to the lady at the back for 80 cents. Number. Number. Number. The number of whoever bought this. Now we launch
into our
vast range of paperbacks. Ace, Siri the Sun, Samuel Ardolene. 1965.
The undervised original edition. Uncensored,
how much? How
much? Anybody? Robert
Heinlein,
farmer in the sky. 40 cents. Salt for 40 cents. What's the number, kid? 42. Herbert De Castle, the reassembled man. 20 cents. 25
cents. How much? 25 cents. 30. 40 cents. Sold very glindy with 40 cents. Your number, sir. 25. What number was that? 25. Conor Sewers SF. 30 cents. 31. 30 cents. 30 cents. 40. It's about androids.
Ten cents. Twenty cents.
Sold for twenty cents, number twenty-two. Robert A. Roberta Heinlein, the pocket masters. I'll take it if you give me $3. It's signed by P.J. Stinson, whoever that is, 1960, 20 cents. $0.10 $0.10 $0.5 $0.5 $0.5 $0.5
$0.5 $0.5 $0.5 $0.5 $0.5 $0.5 $0.5 $0.5 $0.5 $0.5 $0.5 $0.5 $0.5 $0.5 $0.5 $0.5 $0.5 $0.5 $0.5 $0.5 $0.5 $0.5 $0.5 $0.5 $0.5 $0.5 $0.5 $0.5 $0.5 $0.5 $0.5 $0.5 $0.5 $0.5 $0.5 $0.5 $0.5 $0.5 $0.5 $0.5 $0.5 $0.5 $0.5 $0.5 $0.5
$0.5 $0.5 $0.5 $0.5 $0.5 Towers of Torren by Samuel Adelaide and the Lunar Eye by Robert Orr-Williams. Twenty? Twenty cents.
Thirty cents.
Sold for thirty cents. Keith Lorna, World's Imperial 1962. Ten cents. Fifty cents.
Do I hear any advance on fifty cents? Sold for fifty cents. Ah, another nice ace double. The letter in the sky by Keith Woodcott. And the darkness before tomorrow... Ah, that's John Brunner. Doesn't look like it. The
darkness before tomorrow, Robert Moore Williams. Twenty cents. 25, 30, 40, 50, 60,
sold
for 60 cents, which are number 26. More penguin science fiction. 10
cents, 20
cents,
The Flesh and the Furnace are science fiction novel by Dean R. Coots. Pass it on. Ten cents. You've got ten cents. Twenty. Thirty. It was nearly... Thirty. Forty. Forty. Oh, fifty. Fifty. Fifty-five. Fifty-five.
It's all for fifty-five. Number thirty-nine. The Gull Keepers. It was edited by Leo Moguilli. Ten cents. Twenty cents. Twenty-five. Twenty-five. Thirty. Thirty-five. Thirty-five. Forty. Forty-five.
Forty-five. Fifty. Fifty. Fifty. Fifty. Fifty. Fifty. Fifty. Fifty. Fifty. Fifty. Fifty. Fifty. Fifty. Fifty. Fifty. Fifty. Fifty. Fifty. Fifty. Fifty. Fifty. Fifty. Fifty. Fifty. Fifty. Fifty. Fifty. Fifty.
Fifty. Fifty. Fifty. Fifty. Fifty. Fifty. Fifty. Fifty. Fifty. Fifty. Fifty. Fifty. Fifty. Fifty. Fifty. Fifty. Fifty. Fifty. Fifty. Fifty. Fifty. Fifty. Fifty. Fifty. Fifty. Fifty. Fifty. Fifty. Fifty. Fifty.
Fifty. Fifty. Fifty. Fifty. Fifty. Fifty. Fifty. Fifty. Fifty. Fifty. Fifty. Fifty. Fifty. Fifty. Fifty. Fifty. Fifty Strangers at Collins House by Marilyn Ross.
Cycle of nemesis by Keith Volma. Twenty. I'll get twenty.
Thirty-five.
Twenty-five. The Dark
Symphony,
Dean R.
Coots. 20 cents. Come on, really. 65, thank you very much. 65. I think you meant 65. That's why I don't take 65 cents for it. 25 cents. Science fiction edited by John W. Campbell, The Permanent Inflation, original
title, Landlock 4. 25 cents. 25 cents. Somebody did 65. When? I'll go in. 35.
Sold to 40.35.
In the dazzling tradition of 2001, a space Odyssey, a world by the tail. 10 cents. How much? 30 cents. 40 cents. 40 cents.
10 cents. Counter commandment. Analog five. Ten. We've already got ten. Thirty. Thirty cents.
Go on for thirty cents. Number. What do you got here? Master's choice numbers one and two as a set 20 cents
50 cents 70 cents who said a dollar dollar What's that? $1.25.
And he advanced on a $1.25. $1.30. $1.40. $1.50. $1.50. $1.57 for $1.50.
James Blish, the Warriors of Day. 10 cents. 20. 25. 30.
Arthur
C.
Clarke, the Deep Range. 10 cents. $0.20 Is that you? $0.30 $0.35 $0.10
Come on boy,
your book. Ten cents. Uh, hmm. Look at us in there. I
don't
know where I am. Oh God. And loving it. William Johnson. Five cents. That's getting better. Soldier 42 for
five cents. City Ship and City Shop, Jack Williamsson. As it said. 20 cents. 50. Here. 60.
Hang on. I'll
put up that. Andre Norton, Lord of Thunder. 20.
Twenty cents, do I hear any more? Twenty-five. Twenty-five. Thirty.
Twenty-three. Seventy-three cents from John Poister.
Thirty cents. John
Brunner the long result. Ten cents. 20 cents. 30
cents. 40 cents. 40 cents. 60. Oh, shock. 13 tales to start and terrify by one of today's most imaginative writers of medicine horror. 25. 40 cent. 60 cent. 65. 65.
65. 65.
Now here's an interesting book with a strange device by Harry Frank Russell. Twenty cents. Twenty five. Twenty five.
Thirty. Thirty five. Thirty five. Fifty. Thirty nine. Thirty nine. Skylar 3, E. Doc Smith. 20 cents. 30 cents. 40
cents. It's the credit. Go on, 42. 242. The Anything Tree, John Rackman. The Winds of Darkover, Marion Zimmerman Bradley. 2010.
Yeah. 40. 50. 60.
Sold for 60. Is your number?
You didn't buy it, did you? Open
prison, James White. 20, 30, 40, 40. Sold for 40. Huh, well, that's that. What's next? I was
surprised.
What does this
say?
Visions
of tomorrow separately. First issue. Minimum price? Minimum price. Minimum price of a dollar Volume one number one This book has been issued from the prison library to the prisoners whose names appear below
Four dollars Four dollars Go on.
Vision to tomorrow, volume one, number two. Two dollars.
There is. Two dollars. It's not quite. Slightly loose on the inside. That will be all. Two dollars.
Visions are tomorrow. Volume one, number six. Minimum of a dollar. 50
cents
will be reconsidered your fifth kind sir 60 cents 70
cents 70 cents
Visions are tomorrow. Volume one, number five. Is there a reserve? No reserve. Sixty.
Sixty cents. Do I hear any more?
Businesses tomorrow, volume one, number four. $0.50.
$0.60.
And Lee Harding's worst story, you can do better than this. That's right, Eddie Jones artwork. 60 cents, 65.
80 cents.
Sold
trading.
Another volume one number one, fifty cents. Dollar. Dollar. Two dollars. No, unfortunately
not. That's right. Two dollars. Sold for two. Oh, here we go.
Two weird mysteries, number four and number two. Not necessarily in that order. Any reserve? No reserve. Ten cents each, twenty cents. Any more than twenty.
World
of Tomorrow, 1966. Ten cents. Science
fantasy. Ten. We've already got ten. Twenty. Twenty cents. Thirty. Thirty cents. Forty. Forty cents.
Sold for forty cents. Forty-five. Twenty-five. Twenty-five. Twenty-two international science fiction. Twenty. Twenty. Twenty. We've got ten each already. Twenty. Thirty. Thirty cents. 40 cents. 50. Go on to
50. 25. How many of these go? How many of these go? How many of these go? How many of these go? How many of these go? How many of these go? How many of these go? How many of these go? How many of these go? How many of these go? How
many of these go? How many of these go? How many of these go? How many of these go? How many of these go? How many of these go? How many of these go? How many of these go? How many of these go? How many of these go? How many of
these go? How many of these go? How many of these go? How many of these go? How many of these go? How many of these go? How many of these go? How many of these go? How many of these go? Go on for $50.
Venture science fiction with a complete novel by Gordon Dickinson. You've got ten already. Out of the horde. Ten cents already. You've already got ten. Twice already. Yeah, I can't be waiting for you. The auctioneer
should be doing all the listening, shouldn't he? Yeah, but we need to know what's going on.
Two Spaceway Science Fiction. 10 cents each. 50 cents. 50
cents.
Amazing stories, volume one, number five. Ten cents. British. British.
fantasy book number six fifty
cents fifty cents sixty cents seventy seventy
seventy cents fifty seven oh wait you had eighty how about you did you? oh sorry eighty ninety dollar one ten one ten
Three
magazines of horror. Which one? 26, 27 and 28. 10 cents each. No, there's
not. There are four of them. Dollar? Oh, it's on separately. Number 26. 20 cents. 40.
cents. Number 27. 30.
50.
65 75 10 cents 20 20 30
40 40
Fifty cents, your number? Number nine. Hmm? Twenty nine. Twenty nine. Ten. Number thirty one. That's five cents. First? Forty. No, that's fifty. Fifty-five. Fifty-six. Fifty-seven. I'm done. How much? Seventy.
Seventy-five.
Eight. Done. That was John Foisters. Number three. We have
one, two, three, four, five, six galaxies, no, galaxies. Dollar. Dollar. They're British ones. They're listed in the catalog, which you can just copy them down for me. No, it's okay. Me, David, one said me, American.
About the ripple and come of that separately.
That's one. Oh, you see him. I don't know. $1.50 for the light. $1.50 for the light. $1.50
for the light. Together.
Two amazing September and July, July and September 1969. Ten cents each.
With silverbergs up the line.
Thirty. That's thirty-five.
Fifty-five.
Fifty-one.
Amazing,
June. 961.
10 cents. 20. Go on
for 20.
October. December, 1965, amazing. Murray Leinster's, Killership.
What do you say? Good. 25. 40. 52.
Fantasy and science fiction July. Er, 1969.
Special Frick's Live Reshift. How much? 50. 60. 80.
80. 90. $1. $1.
I
don't know what that was. June and August, 1969. Fantastics. 10 each. 20 cents. Thirty. Thirty-five. Forty cents. Solve for forty.
Fantastic. March and May, 1968. Twenty.
Thirty. Forty. Forty.
Forty cents.
3. Fantasy and Science Fiction. January, February and May. 30 cents. Good question. 1969. 50 cents. Any advance on 50? Go
on. Amazing June and August 1966. 20 cents 30. 30. 30.
30. 30. 30. 30. 30. 30. 30. 30. 30. 30. 30. 30. 30. 30. 30. 30. 30. 30. 30. 30. 30. 30. 30. 30. 30. 30. 30. 30. 30. 30. 30. 30. 30. 30. 30. 30. 30. 30. 30. 30. 30. 30. 30. 30. 30. 30. 30. 30. 30. 30. 30. 30. 30. 30. 30. 30. 30. 30. 30. 30.
30. 30. 30. 30. 30. 30. 30. 30. 30. 30. 30. 30. 30. 30. 30. 30. 30. 30. 30. 30. 30. 30. 30. 30. 30. 30. 30. 30. 30. 30. 30. 30. 30. 30. 30. 30. 30. 30. 30. 30. 30. 30. 30. 30. 30. 30. 30. 30.
Four, fantasy and science fiction. April, two
April. April 65, April 66.
Single.
April 65, 10 cents. 40 cents. 40 cents. What's
your number? I'll give you 20. 20. It's useless. Didn't work, Paul. April 90, 66. 20. 45.
10. July, 1966. 10. 20. 30. 40. 40. 40. 10.
June, 1966. 10. 20. 20. 20.
December, 1967. 10.
Twenty.
Twenty-three, twenty. Twenty-three, twenty. Twenty-three, twenty. Twenty-three, twenty. Twenty-three, twenty. Twenty-three, twenty. Twenty-three, twenty. Twenty-three, twenty. Twenty-three, twenty.
Twenty-three, twenty. Ten cents.
The Expert Dream is edited by Frederick Paul. Ten cents.
Ten cents. They took it
and set up more. The rest of the auction will be the last item in the program on Sunday afternoon. You've got them out between.
I have noble support of you, a straight man of... Got a nice furry head. Okay, we're going to start the auction. I'm not going to shout too loud because I've got a rotten head. John Bush told me I always have had one. I
request Kevin Dillon's bids to be audible to the other people bidding. Right? Okay, these are completely out of order, aren't they? They're new stuff. Well, it's sort of like the old order. Sort of like the old order,
but don't worry about your list too much, right? Have we got that cardboard box to throw the junk in yet? I'll just toss it over the back. Okay, double jeopardy. Fletcher Pratt, an excellent crime SF novel. 20 and he went
to 30.
Any advance on 80? Dollar. Any advance on a dollar? Dollar 10. Any advance on a dollar 10? Dollar 20. Dollar 20. Dollar 50. Any advance on a dollar 50? Got the quality stuff here sold to 46 for a dollar 50. The Star Meal by
Emil Pertagia. This is the Finnish legends rewritten. That's what you do when you're hard up for a plot. 20 any events on 20 cents for this science fiction version of the Kalevala or Kalevilla or whatever it is. 30. Any
events on 35? 50. Any events on 50? Sol 2. 19. 50. Startling mystery, spring number 15, Hands of the Dead, WWJ Cubs, Paul Ernst and all that sort of thing. This is a Bob Lowndes magazine worth its weight in 50 cent pieces.
Any advance on 10? 20 over there, 30. Any advance on 50? 50. 60. Any advance on 60? Sold out. 29 for 60. A similar lot. Number 10, 10 down the front here. Any advance on 10? 20. 40. Advance on 40. 50. 50. 60. Solder. 49 to 60.
Oh, it's got a beautiful cover. Two bullets through a bosom. Looks like a wide bang vampire bat on my bed. 10. Disgusting. Advance on 10. Any events on 10 to save this youngster from depravity? 20. 20, good lad. 30. Any
events on 30? No, he's depraved already. 30. 40.
Any events on 40? 50. Any events on 50? Sold to? 29. 29 for 50. It's harder when you do this server. Kingsley Amos, the anti-death league, has a reserve of five cents. It's got a beautiful cover. Any advance on 10 cents?
15. 20. Any advance on 20? It's a good one. Not a great one. 35. 40. 45. 45. Any advance on 50? 60. 70. 70 up there. Any advance on 70? So I'll do. Number six. Number six for 70. The other side of the moon, an anthology edited by
Duluth, one of the very early ones. Lovecraft, Leinster, Bradbury. And yeah, the great Bradbury story about them reviving Thomas Wolfe and taking him forward at the time. Memorial by Sturgeon. Oh, come on. We'll
open this at 50 cents. Who's bidding 50? 50 over here. Any advance on 50? 60. 60, good. Any advance? 80. 80 over there, good. Man, it has a bargain when he sees one. Any advance on 90? One dollar. One dollar. Dollar 10.
Dollar 10. Any advance on a dollar 10? $1.20 $1.30 $1.30
Saldo $0.35 I think $0.35 she thinks for $1.30 and it's a bargain.
Jack of Shadows by Rodgers of Lesney I'm sure Bill Wright will say great things about this noble novel
Thank you. Last one was number 54. Oh, she's got a pretty face. Don't worry about the number. What are we bid for, Jack of Shadows? It's all about masturbation in the dark.
Got any advance on 20? 30. 30, over there. 40? 50. Any advance on 50? 60. 60? Any advance on 60? 70. 75. 80. 80. Quite tennis, isn't it? Any advance on 80? Sold out. 39. 39 for 80. Here's a novel about a science fiction
convention committee that's called Out of Their Minds. 20. Any advance on 20? 30. 40. 50. 50. 60. Any advance on 60? I'd like you advancing your own bid's billets view. Any advance on 60 Bill?
Sold to number six for 60. Here's a very rare item, the ship from Atlantis by H. Warner Munn. On the other side is Moor Kalevala by Emil Poteja, the stolen son. 20. 30. 30. Advance on 30. 40. It events on 40, 50, ending on 50,
so I'll do 57, 50. Oh yes, this is quite a cult novel, this one. We're talking about sex and science fiction the other day. Actually, this is a sequel to that, isn't it? Oh well, you go by the second bit first and have the
first bit later. Sources of Qua, sexy SF by Ted White.
Do I have it for Ted White? Do I hear a bit of 10 cents? Thank you. Any advance on 10? 15. Any advance on 15? 20. Any advance on 20? I'll get a buck for this in a moment. So I'll do $40 for 20. You want this one too? That's the first
in the series. 10 cents? 10 cents been there. Any advance on 10? If
you get this one, you'll have to live together, you know? Any advance on 20? 25.
Could you better live with him? Or do you have 40 over there? Any advance on 40? 45. Keep it clean. Any advance on 45? 50. He's after you, this one. Any advance on 50? No advance on 50. Have you no shame? 55 over there. Any
advance on 55? 60. Any advance on 60? 70. Any advance on 70? Sold to. Better protect the young. 49 to 70.
Here's another good sex novel. Aliens Sex is called The Human Angle. Stories by William Ten. 20. Yes, it's very good. 20. Any advance on 20? 40. 50. 60.
Any advance on 60? I'm 65, 70, advance on 70, sell 80, and advance on 80. Dollar. Dollar. Get the Valentine edition for less than that. Sell to $6 for a dollar. Oh boy. Spawn of the death machine. An even worse Ted White
novel than the other one. $20. $25. $30. Ted White. 40. 40. 50. 50. Any advance on 50? 55. 55. Any advance on that? Do I hear 60? No, soul to 57 for 55. Oh, now we come to quality stuff. Mad number 144. I'm not an authority on
this, so I can't make jokes about it. You can, no, can't you? Any advance on 10? 10 up the back there. A coliseum has been 10 cents for this extravagant article. Any advance on 10? 1, 4, 4. 15.
Any advance on 15? 20. 20. Sold to 42 over 20, and that's a bargain. What's a cabalone? 148. 148. One of my bid? Ten. Ten. Any advance on ten? Go ahead. Go ahead, twenty. Twenty. Any advance on twenty? Solder. Three. Three
for twenty. One. One forty seven. Twenty. Twenty. Any advance on twenty? Solder. Forty. Forty. Forty three for twenty. Oh, good. Another one. How many more? One, four, nine. I'll take five. Any
advance on ten? Twenty. Twenty. I'd appreciate if that wasn't on. Does it have to be on for any reason? Good, thanks. Any advance on twenty? Soul two? Three. Three for twenty. The mad special number six. With ten cents,
any advance on ten? Fifteen. Fifteen, any advance on fifteen, twenty? Ending on twenty? Solder? Twenty-four. Twenty-four for twenty.
To reserve on these is quite a bit of a plushy here with Max Harris's. Why don't we just pass them through? Well, they don't know that. They don't know that, do they? You can get these at Max Harris's for $1.15, right?
Uh, what's the reserve? 150. 150. Anybody want to pay 150 for any of these asterisks books? They're still cheap. I mean, you'd have to walk up to Max Harris' to get one. Probably take a taxi, and then it'd boost it up a bit.
I can't remember which one. Eric's good. Okay. Who's bidding? No, it's the Trumway. The startling store is generally 47. Oh, the real stuff. Probably Evan Hamilton's best novel, The Star of Life. Also has Murray
Leinster and a character called George Whitley. Remember you all now as Bertram Chandler. I won't take any bid under 50 cents for this. Good on you, Bill. A dollar fifty? Good. And
we're saying the reserve is a dollar fifty, no sale, right? The reserve on all these is $1.50, and you've got a bit of $1.50 we'll pass this right across, okay? Right, okay. Well, you can give it a space age for $1, don't
worry about that. Here's the House of Any World, Sam Erwin Jr. No. One of the greatest ultimate world novels, $1.50, go on, we haven't got a space age that one anyway. 21 for $1.50. Passport to Jupiter, Raymond Z Gallon,
Great Litter Columns,
Double meaning, Damon Knight overdrive by Murray Leinster.
Hey, doing it too man. The Starwatch is Eric Frank Russell. Pretty hard to come. Yeah, worth it. Any advance on a $1.50? Sold to $46. The long view, Fletcher Fratt's best novel and with Kendall Foster Crossen's worst
story. $1.50.
Any advance on $1.50? On the classic time travel, yeah. So I'll do $46 for $1.50. Bubble 17, Samuel Delaney. Most pretentious science fiction I've ever written, according to Brian Aldous and James Lish. Do I hear a
bid? 20. 20, good man, yeah. That's a bit pretentious, that bid. Any advance on 20? 25. 25, yeah, subtle. Any advance on 25? So I'll do all 30. Any advance on 30? So I'll do 57 from 30. Oh, God. There's only a couple on the
list. Here's a nostalgic man. Oh, this is the good one. It's got the comic inside and all that. Oh, yeah. Look, look, look, look. It's got the special reprint of the great comic issue. Right. What am I offering for this?
Thank you. Anything about, anything about 20? 30. That's right. Anything about 30? 50. Do I hear anything more than 50? Sold to 21 for 50. The trash at the end of the rainbow issue, number 152. Sold to
three for 20. Oh, course of Pinterest number three. Who's in this? Robert Block, Terry G's, Bruce Gillespie. Bill Roszler. Oh, it's a Roszler cover. Yes, isn't it? Bill Roszler. Roszler? Roszler, a new young artist.
Oh, so it is. Yeah, Roszler, yeah. What am I bid for this item? 20. Advance on 20. 40.
Anything on 40? Does anyone want to suppress this for more than 40 cents? So I'll do. Number 6 for 40 cents. No one knows what this stuff is. No one knows what this stuff is. It still has to go through quickly if you observe.
It still has to go through quickly. What's the quickly bit? We've got to be on here by 5.30. Oh well. I hope we can afford it. We can leave now if we like. Yeah. So people, you know... Kangaroo feathers number one
illustrated by Whig and Irene Pagram. Yes, reserve one. Oh, I've got a look to find them. We had an arrangement where I did and I got it. What am I bid for this priceless item? Spotting man, yes. I like your type. Any
advance on 25 cents? Doesn't know which reserve.
Place Gordon Manon Manon Manon Manon Manon Manon Manon Manon Manon Manon Manon Manon Manon Manon Manon Manon Manon Manon Manon Manon Manon Manon Manon Manon Manon Manon Manon Manon Manon Manon Manon Manon Manon
Manon Manon Manon Manon Manon Manon Manon Manon Manon Manon Manon Manon Manon Manon Manon Manon Manon Manon Manon Manon Manon Manon Manon Manon Manon Manon Manon Manon Manon Manon Manon Manon Manon Manon Manon Manon
Manon Manon Manon Manon Manon Manon Well that's
more entertaining
than this. Did you want to pay 75 cents? No. Right. Don Winslow, I think that's 20. 20 cents for doing Winslow? No, no reserve. No good. No reserve, you can have that for a cheap price. No, no one wants good. Felix the cat?
No. 50 cents on that. 50 cents on that. 50 cents is a bit. Number nine. Any advance on 50? Do I toss it in? No, you can sell it. 27 for 50. The grey domino? 30 on that. 30 on this? 30. Any advance on 30? Solder, 27 for 30. 20 on each
of these. 20 on this, little bit. 20. Any advance on 20? Solder, 20. Same again. Adventures in Wonderland, giant 32 page comic. 20. Any advance on 20? 30. Any advance on 30? Solder, 6 for 30. Same again. Same again. My
greatest adventure. These are Australian reprints, yeah. Number 20. In advance on 20. Soldo. 46 for 20. William Tell TV picture library.
Not like the old days. I didn't watch them garbage then. 30. In advance on 30. Soldo. 27 for 30. Your boots may be able to hear you, but I can't. Man Junior.
I
guess it's the Dibble Dune bits that make them worthwhile, I don't know. In 3K? Mmm. Two cents. Five. What's the reserve? Any reserve? Twenty is the same as the twenty cents or a piece of used clinics. Any advance on
twenty cents? Did anybody even bid twenty cents? Good. That's an emerald patager. Oh, there's an emerald patager story in this. You remember emerald patager, don't you? Twenty cents again. Four dollars. Well, here
it is, which you've all been waiting for. Science fiction novel by a frustrated old man. It's a $4.50 reserve on time enough for love. $5.00. $5.00. $6.00. $4.50.
Any advance on $6.00? $6.50. $6.00. $7.00. $7.00. It's my time you're wasting on yours. $7.50. $8.00. Any advance on $8.00? Soldo. 66. 66 for eight. You got a bargain. Those two, the reserves, four dollars. Four
dollars for both. Oh, yes, it is for both. Yes, it is for both. I know there are only two and a half pairs out at Mary Martin. Four dollars. Four dollars for this priceless pair without the illustrations. Well, good
heavens we can't get the reserve. How about that? What is it? Dangerous fish. Oh, fucking dollars!
Do I hear a bit? I don't want to do that. No reserve. No reserve. Well, hang on a minute. He hasn't given us a... Then Kevin, you know, he's kept it a secret. Here's an article by Ken Slater. at highly esteemed biologists in
England. Those of us who attended the alternate banquet last night will know what we mean. Vector number what's it? October 65, number 35. 30. Any advance on 30? Solder 6 for 30. A similar lot, number 36. 20. Any advance
on 20? 40. Any advance on 40? Solder Kevin Dillon, he's a special case, you know, he can't remember his number. Here's some more of Ron Smith's insides.
What's the reserves on? We don't have a reserve, Kevin. I've told you, for class 8. Right. Kevin Dillon's number 48. Kevin Dillon's number 48. He is no longer a free man, he's a number. This is truly one of legendary
American magazines. $0.50? $1? There's a dollar down the front here. $20, I'm selling these over too, it's incredible. Any advance on a $20? A bargain to Bill Wright. $60 for a $20. I'm fairly rare, complete set, put
out by the Bidding Committee for the 74th Convention. Comic strip, is it? $8? Oh, this is this incredible comic strip that was put out by the Bidding Committee for the 74th Convention. Who's the artist? John? Anyway,
there is two, four, six... Great! What's it for? What is this? Great. What's the reserve? No reserve? Good. Offer me 10 cents. 50. 50, good. Any advance on 50? 60. 60, so how much does that work? 70? 75. 75? Any advance on
75? 80. 80? Any advance on 80? Sold to? Number 26. Number 26 or 80? Eastercom 22, the 22nd British Science Fiction Convention with photographs of very impressive people. Oh, yes, it's got Dr. Marks there too. What am I
bid? Twenty. Twenty. Any advance on twenty? Thirty. Thirty. Forty. Fifty. Any advance on fifty? Sixty. Any advance on sixty? Sold to forty-eight. Sixty.
The National Times Magazine with three pages for winter and two. For summer. Well, I can find them.
Bert Chandler, Spiles. George Turda has a pain in the ass. He was attending a science fiction convention at that stage. And look, there is the mighty monolithic This is autographed by Batman and Robert. No, only by
Robert. Only by Robert, yes. I have that. Anyway, this is a good article and it's got a very twisty photograph of Mervyn Bins. What am I bid? Ten cents. Ten cents. There's a reserve on this, I might add, for the cost of the
newspaper. Here, Vance, on ten cents for those glorious colour photographs. Twenty. Thank you, Bill. Here, Vance, on twenty. It didn't take my favor ever I'd drive you a bidding right up. Any advance on 20? Sold at
number 6 for 20 cents. Oh, original Eddie Jones artwork from Fission Off Tomorrow. This illustrates a John Russell Fern story into the unknown. Nice piece of work by Eddie Jones. Reserve? You find out the hard way.
Here's the reserve. No reserve. No reserve. It's $1.50. $2, it's a nice bit of work. $2.50? Any advance on $2.50? $3.00? Any advance on $3.00? Sold to $27.00 for $3.00. Yes, a very nice piece of work. An original Daryl
inquest. This will bring the worms out of the woodwork. This was for an Enzapa mailing.
Dollar? Support local artists. Any advance on a dollar? Sold to grey-haired muggins up there for a dollar. The best SF stories from New World? Well, I'll check it out first before I ask you to bid. Yes. Hmm. Oh, it's got
the two-time of my David Mason, yeah. Worth buying just for that one story. It's got Zalazny and other people in it. Why don't we bid for this? 20 cents. If you haven't read the two time, has you? Really? I don't know. 30.
30? Advanced on 30? 35. 35?
Advanced on 35? Sold to? Number three. Number three for
35.
The face that launched a thousand quips. 80 cents. A dollar. A dollar. This is what I mean about real publishing, you know? Any increase over a dollar? Well, tap dance for a dollar 50. Sold to... A dollar 50. Who fed that?
Right.
I think under the circumstances... He did. I'm singing in the rain.
Sold to 18 for $1.50.
This is the muck up for science fiction commentary number 30. If you want to see the actual amount of work that Bruce Gillespie puts into a fencing, you must be joking. No, come on, let's have some genuine business. $1,
Robin. $1.20. Any advance on $1.20?
I'm sorry, Bruce. I couldn't do anything about it. $1.50. $1.70.
Robin, how's that? Sold to $25 for $1.70.
Ah, Peace Lord of the Universe strikes again. These books speak for themselves. If you plug your ears, you won't hear a word. What am I? Very red N number 13. What? Are you bidding, Jill? No. Alright, good. Do you want to
hear an offer? One. Anything above 10? 15. 15, just to make my time worthwhile. 20. 20? Any advance on 20? I told you it was a reserve on Perry Road, Ed. They must be crazy.
Russian space stuff, reserve 40 cents for the tin English and Russian, isn't it? And the photographs are in French.
well it's what it says that there's a reserve of forty cents on it forty fifty any advance on fifty sold to twenty-one the
reserve is now five dollars on this any advance on six any advance on six fifty seven eight eight fifty nine So,
number 26 for nine dollars. Yellow poster. Oh, how many of them do we have? Oh, yellow one and two orange ones. Can't we just give them the one? Yeah, right on. Does anybody want to buy an Easter con poster? Yeah, one's
best, please. This is the moment of truth, Irene. Don't worry about it. Well, look, there's quite a few here. We'll probably give them away to anyone who's nice. You can look after these rubbers, couldn't you? Thanks,
Joe. Okay. He wants to see what they fetch. Oh, I want to see what they fetch.
You fell us with a tomato. A beautiful piece of work, you know, it's sub-tall like. Dollar? Anything over a dollar? We had a dollar there. Fuckin' a half. That's a dollar fifty. A new metric conversion. Any advance on a
dollar fifty? Solve you. Thirty-nine. Thirty-nine. You wanna go on with it, Robert? Let's see how the next one goes. Okay. A similar look. One dollar. One dollar. Any advance on one dollar? One twenty. Dollar twenty.
$30
here. No good straight man, Kevin. $30 over here. Any advance on $1.30? That'll do. $66 for $1.30. Why doesn't he keep it going, Lee? Oh.
Where are we? Go on, have another go. Come on. A dollar? Right, a dollar over there. Don't let him get away with it. Come on. Good. Any advance on a dollar, 20? Dollar 30. Dollar 30. Any advance on dollar 30? Sell to...
Number 49 for dollar 30. Give her another try. I think Kevin's bidding a dollar. Of course he's bidding a dollar. Any advance on a dollar? Let's be mean to Kevin Dillon in a week. Any advance on a dollar? Dollar 20. Dollar
20, girl. That'd be real mean. Any advance on a dollar 25? Dollar 30. Dollar 30 over there. Do I hear any advance on a dollar 30? 140. 140? You didn't have to.
Any advance on a dollar 40? Sold to $57.40. You wouldn't have got it anyway, Kevin, you'd have to. We haven't got any more. Oh, I was getting more. No, we've got to go to the other stuff, I'm sorry. Oh, that's okay, that was
fun. I'm serviced 30 cents on this. startling mystery lounge again this is winter number 14 50 cent reserve 30 cent reserve 20 cent reserve exactly 30
no i didn't
i was joking we're bid 30 come on we're bid 30 What's the advance on 30? Any advance on 30? Sold to 29 for 30. Oh, another hole through the breast one. 30 on this too. Any advance on 30?
Any bid on 30? Any old bones, rags?
Full number 17. 30 cents. Any bid?
Magazine of horror. Number 24. 30
cents. So they're all 30 on these lounge magazines. Any events on that? Any offers, bids?
Startling mystery. Winter number 14. Thirty. Thirty. Any advance on thirty? Soldo. Forty-five to thirty. Number seventeen again. Thirty. Thirty. Any advance on thirty? Soldo. Twenty-nine. Twenty-nine for
thirty. Twenty-four. Any bid?
One dollar. One dollar for the sacred helmet. All in English, you know, this sort of stuff.
Any bid? A dollar's a reserve. A dollar, any advance on a dollar? Sell to six for a dollar. A breast of national lampoon.
It's a dollar reserve. A dollar fifty reserve, is it? I've had someone, mate. I told you, Ty. Did you? Any advance on a dollar fifty?
I hope people just don't itself do that. Two dollars on this, it's coming out in paper back soon, but... We'll consult an economic on it. It says here, comic. A history of comic books. Ah, two dollars. Possibly
re-kemming this braille. I haven't gotten you a slight pause here. Five dollars. $5 it's a reserve $5 $5 $5 $5 $5 $5 $5 $5 $5 $5 $5 $5 $5 $5 $5 $5 $5 $5 $5 $5 $5 $5 $5 $5 $5 $5 $5 $5 $5 $5 $5 $5 $5 $5 $5 $5 $5 $5 $5 $5 $5 $5 $5 $5 $5 $5 $5 $5 $5
$5 $5 $5 $5 $5 $5 $5 $5 $5 $5 $5 $5 $5 $5 $5 $5 $5 $5 $5 $5 $5 $5 $5 $5 $5 $5 $5 $5 $5 $5 $5 $5 $5 $5 $5 $5 $5 $5 $5 $5 $5 $5 $5 $5 $5 $5 $5 $5 $5 $5 $5 $5 $5 $5 $5 $5 $5 $5 $5 $5 50 cents. It's a nice new addition you can get you for a dollar, you know,
in the shops. Any advance on 50 cents? Sold to... What's it? 64 for 50. Oh, Sydney Van Schoek. Electro-Pension and Willie Lay and all them. Richard Wilson. It's an issue of Galaxy that I shouldn't have to auction. What
am I bid for? American edition. Yeah, it's a born butter cover. May 1969. Any bids? 20 cents. 20 cents again. Oh, how we banned the bombs, the best I've shouted love at the heart of the world, and the very famous Vietnam
business the writers did who was for it, who was against it, they put their hands down for it. Probably, yes. Oh, I'm sure, yes. What are my bids? What will be the last option I do? April 1969, Galaxy.
September 69, World's
of Youth. January something or other, 1969, this has Santa Claus versus Spider by Harlan Ellison, my favorite story of his. That's a real screen, folks. Go ahead, 20. 20, anything above 25? 30. Any events on 30? Sold to
39 for 30.
September 68th, Fantasy and Science Fiction.
Ah, the gate without horns. First of two parts, by Thomas Bennett's one. Yeah, we won't mention that. August 70.
Oh, this is one of the incriminable anniversary issues of 20th this time. That's some of Alder's digs, the lasny block, the works, you know. Any... 20 cents. Any advance on 20? Solder 42 for 20.
Analog, September 69, The Usual Rubbish. Did I hear
a bit? It's good, I'd have chestaches of healing. What's that one? Here we are, April 69. 46. Oh,
The All Mighty Colossal Comic. With a very suggestive front cover illustration. Any bid? Yes,
terrible, isn't it? I ain't got no culture. Here's the mammoth manual. It's the biggest comic ever printed, so they save.
What people had bid for them, I would. It's number 11. The reserve is 40 cents. 40 cents, so we've long times had to have had a giggle. 10 cents for Star Trek number. I'm looking, I'm really looking. Oh God, where is it?
Number 16. There's a 20 cent reserve. Any advance on 20 cents? Oh, 25. Good. Any advance on 25.
25 to 25. The present range is number 148 with reserves 10 cents. Look, there he is, just trying to have a quiet pee and a bloody octopus comes along.
One of my beds.
No beds. I will leave him in his misery. Oh, a
Brick Bradford number 14. And the reserve is only ten cents. I haven't seen a Brick Bradford comic in years. The time top, remember? Did I hear a bid? Twenty. Good. Anything above twenty? Thirty. Thirty? Any advance on
thirty? Forty. Any advance on forty? Sold to six for forty.
House of Secrets number 93. The reserve? Twenty cents. Twenty cents reserve? Twenty cents. For those who can afford it? Twenty cents. Twenty down here? Oh, hello. Pay advance on twenty? No. Sold to whoever you are for
twenty. Service fifty. Terrorist side. America's destruction of our living environment. We can give these away in the shop. Not this particular title, I mean ecology titles in general. Is there a reserve on? 50
cents. 50 cents.
Advanced on 50 cents.
I think at the next auction we will restrict reserves on junk. Donald Horne, The Permit,
Reserve 20. Batman versus the Penguin.
Reserve. I hope you appreciate that the word junk is not a literary evaluation, but junk is anything that wastes my time and yours. Any bid? Reserve.
The Candy Colour Tangerine Played Streamline Fanzine by Tom Wolf. I'll pick them. I'll pick them. I'll pick them. I'll pick them. I'll pick them. I'll pick them. I'll pick them. The Wizard of Oz by Frank Moore.
Introduction by James Thurber. 20, any advance on 20? Reserves 40. Reserves 40. You know, we play these little games. Thanks, Al. Any advance on 40? Sold to 26 for 40. This is a book on cow husbandry. It's called
Understanding Moo.
I'm getting tired, I'm sorry. Is there a reserve? Any offer of 50?